
CREATING A CHARACTER

WHILE IT CAN BE AMAZING FUN TO PLAY WITH ESTABLISHED
Marvel characters, many players like to create original
characters of their own who can fit into the Marvel
Multiverse. Even Narrators can join in the fun by coming
up with original villains and other characters for the heroes
to interact with and defeat.

The first time you create a character, the process can
be a little intimidating, but after you've done it a couple of
times, it becomes smoother and easier. Just remember that
the idea is to have fun with it. Let your creativity flow, and
don't be afraid to come up with the wildest characters you
want. If one doesn’t work out, you can always make more.

Before you start figuring out a character's abilities, powers
and other statistics, you should think a bit about who the
character is. That’s what sets them apart from others and
breathes life into them, making them more than a simple
collection of numbers and rules.

It’s often easiest to start out with a high concept: a one-
sentence description of the character that tells you what’s
most special about them. This can focus on their personal
history, the origin of their powers, the kinds of powers they
have or all of the above.

For instance, for Spider-Man (Peter Parker), the high
concept might read like this:

Bitten by a radioactive spider, which gave him spider-related
powers, orphaned and bullied high-school student Peter Parker
strives to help others out of a sense of great responsibility.

“Ss
Ne

That single sentence tells you most of what you need
to know about Peter Parker, and you can flesh out the
details from there.

It’s okay if your high concept isn’t particularly sharp
or polished at first. Go ahead and get started making the
character anyhow. As you dive deeper into that process,
the character should become more in focus, and you can
go back and revise the high concept to fit them better
if you'd like.

Part of a Team

If your hero is going to be part of a team, talk with the
Narrator and the other players to think a bit about how
that character might help round out the team. For instance,
a team that’s filled with big bruisers who can punch out
tanks might be great at brawling but could fall short
in other areas.

If that’s the kind of game you and your friends want
to play, go for it. Do whatever you like at your own table.

If you want your team to be ready for anything, though,
consider trying to fill out a better-balanced team instead.
Just talk with your fellow players about who wants to play
what kinds of characters and then try to spread out among
those roles as best you can.

It’s okay, though, if you have some gaps in your team’s
overall abilities or if the team focuses on certain types of
heroes, Your team is what you make of it, and your Narrator
can usually adjust to that by coming up with adventures
that fit your team well.

Here are the five simple steps to create a Marvel Multiverse
Role-Playing Game character all your own.

Determine rank.

Pick ability scores.
Pick backstory elements.
Pick powers.
Calculate other scores.

You don’t have to do these things in this exact order. Feel
free to jump around to whatever sections you like. Just make
sure you cover all the steps at some point.

If you're creating a character for a game you're going to play
as part of a team of super heroes, you should chat with the
other players—especially the Narrator—before you begin.

If you're just coming up with a character for your own
amusement or practice and don’t intend to play them ina
game, that’s wonderful. Doing that can be all sorts of fun
on its own. But if you want to be able to play the character
in a particular game, you can head off many conflicts by
making sure that the character is likely to fit well with the
rest of the team.

Rank Caps

The first thing to consider is what kind of game the character
is going to be playing in. Will the team’s members haunt the
rooftops and alleys of Hell's Kitchen? Will they soar through
the galaxy and strive to prevent a galactic war? Or will they
do something else entirely? There's plenty of fertile ground
for all sorts of adventures in between.

The kind of game the character will be in can help
determine the range of ranks you want to play with the
character. That includes the character's starting rank and
their rank cap.

Most super heroes don’t start out as young farmers who
level their way up through countless years of epic adventures

to lead nations—with the notable exception of Colossus.

Instead, they have an origin story—during which they
figure out who they are and how their powers work—and
they usually don’t add any new powers from there. They just
become better at using the powers they have.

Asuper hero’s continuing adventures don’t spring froma
need to accumulate more power. Instead, those adventures
arise from the hero's sense of duty to do what they can to
help the people around them and possibly even to make the
world a better place.

In game terms, a super hero’s origin story often starts
out with them at Rank 1. From there, they can rise through
the ranks until they hit the peak of their powers. That’s
called their rank cap. They spend most of their career as a
hero at that cap.

When creating a hero, it’s often best to start out with the
rank cap in mind. For instance, if you want your hero to have

adventures like Spider-Man, you should set a rank cap of 4.

If you'd rather have Captain Marvel-type adventures, the
rank cap should be 6 instead.

If your group doesn’t want any preset limits and just
wants to see where the game takes them, that’s fine. The
default rank cap is at 6, which is the upper limit.

Zmaeamamaamawaamawaawawaaaaaawawaawaawaawawaweeweeea 2 ae

Starting Rank
Once you've set the character's rank cap, you can decide at
what rank you want the character to start. Some players like
to just start at their rank cap and play a hero who's already
at their peak. Others prefer to start from scratch—at Rank
1—and work their way up to that point. This is the classic
way to develop a hero from an average person to a legend.

It’s perfectly fine to skip over a number of lower ranks,
though, and start off a bit shy of the character's rank cap.
Many players like to start a couple of ranks lower than where
they plan to wind up, which gives them a strong starting
point but also plenty of room to develop and grow. If you're
shooting for Rank 4, for instance, you could start play at
Rank 2 and work your way up.

Look to the end of this chapter for more details on rising
through the ranks.

The next step is to determine your character’s ability scores.
Remember, their first initials spell MARVEL: Melee, Agility,
Resilience, Vigilance, Ego and Logic.

The average score for any ability is 0. Standard human-
level abilities range from -3 to +3, but your character's rank,
traits and powers can lift those higher.

Selecting Ability Scores

When creating a character from scratch, you determine a
character's ability scores by allocating points among the six
abilities. The number of points you have available to allocate
to your ability scores is determined by the character's rank,
as shown on the Ability Score Points table.

You can spend the points however you like. In addition,
if you lower a score below 0, you can use those points to
increase other scores. For instance, lowering a character’s
Ego to -2 would give you 2 points to use on other scores—
although it leaves the character particularly weak and
vulnerable in that area. You cannot voluntarily lower any
score below -3.

The default cap for any score is 3 plus the character's rank.
For regular folks who are Rank 1, that means the standard
cap is 4. For someone like Captain Marvel, who is Rank 6, it’s 9.

ABILITY SCORE POINTS
Ability Points

Rank Default Ability Cap

Ability Defense

To figure a character's defense for each ability, just add 10 to
the ability score. When they defend with that ability, that’s
the target number for the attacker.

«)
Example: Spider-Man has an Agility score of 7. That makes his
Agility defense (7+10=) 17. Someone attacking him in close combat
would need to get a 17 or better to hit him.

However, Spider-Man also has the Spider-Sense power, which
adds +2 to his Agility defense, so his actual Agility defense
is (17+2=) 19.

BACKSTORY

A character’s backstory involves their origin and their
occupation. Each of these gives the character a package of
related labels—traits and tags—that are common to people
who have similar origins and occupations.

Most characters have only one origin, which describes
the source of their powers.

Acharacter’s occupation tells you what they do for a living
or how they spend their days. Many super heroes who are
dedicated to their adventures full-time list their occupation
as “adventurer.”

Acharacter can also have labels unrelated to their origin
and occupation. Their rank determines how many extra
traits you can pick for them. A character gets one extra
trait per rank.

You can add as many or as few tags as you like, and they
can change throughout play.

See Chapter 6 for more details about how all this works
and what your choices are. Fill out that part of the character's
sheet, and then come back here.

POWERS

Super-powers are mostly arranged into power sets: themed
groups of related powers. Some of them are basic powers,
though, that don’t fall into a particular set. In any case, you
can choose freely among all of them, as long as your character
meets any particular power’s prerequisites.

Your character gets to pick four powers per rank. If they
focus them into a smaller number of power sets, they might
even be able to pick a few more.

If you have more power picks than you want to use, you
can use the extra picks to add to your character's ability scores.

Powers are complex enough that they have a whole
chapter dedicated to them. Go read Chapter 7 to learn all
about them, and then fill out the powers section of your
character’s sheet when youre done.

OTHER SCORES

Now that you've made most of the big decisions for your
character, it’s time to do some quick and easy math to figure
out the rest of the scores on their character sheet.

Acharacter’s Health is equal to 30 times their Resilience.

Example: Spider-Man's Resilience is 3, so his Health is (3x30=) 90.

A character's Focus is equal to 30 times their Vigilance.

Example: Spider-Man's Vigilance is 3, so his Focus is (3x30=) 90.

The base amount of damage a character does with an attack
is their rank times the result of the Marvel die on their attack
check. This is called the damage multiplier.

Melee, Accuracy, Ego and Logic can be used for attacks.
In many cases, the damage multiplier for each is the same.
However, when figuring out the damage done, you also add
the ability score used in the attack.

Some powers—like Mighty or Accuracy—can give a
character a bonus to their damage multiplier for attacks
with certain abilities. Powers and other things that grant
bonuses to damage multipliers do not stack.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4, so his standard damage
multiplier is 4. When attacking with Melee, he adds his Melee score
of 5 to that result, so his Melee damage would be (dMarvelx4)+5.

Spider-Man has the power Mighty 1, which adds +1 to his Melee
damage multiplier. This makes his Melee damage (dMarvelx5)+5.

Spider-Man successfully punches a crook with a roll of 4 6 3
on his Melee check. To figure the damage, take Spidey’s Marvel
die result (6) times his Melee damage multiplier (5)—which comes
out to 6x5= 30—plus his Melee score, for a total of 30+5= 35 points
of damage. Since the crook has only 30 Health points, that’s more
than enough to knock him out in one punch!

The character's Initiative Modifier is equal to their Vigilance.
Add this number to their initiative checks to see who goes
first in a fight.

Example: Spider-Man's Vigilance is 3, so his Initiative Modifier is +3.

His Spider-Sense power also gives him an edge on initiative
checks, so his profile shows his Initiative Modifier as +3E, which
means “+3 with an edge.”

Most characters are average size. Some powers and traits can
change that. List the character’s standard size here.

An average-sized character’s base Run Speed is 5 spaces per
round. To that, add +1 for every 5 points they have in Agility.
\ On top of that, if they have the Big trait, they add +1, and if
.} they have the Small trait, they take -1.

Example: Spider-Man's base Run Speed is 5. His Agility is 7,

<> so add another +1 for that to make it 8.
S&F His size is average, so there’s no adjustment from that.

Zmaemamaaamamaawamwaeaeaaaeawaaweeweaeawaaeweweeewee 222

The character’s base Karma is equal to their rank. They can
gain and lose Karma throughout their adventures, but it resets
to this base number every time they get a full night's sleep.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4, so his Karma is 4.

CHARACTER DATA

Now that you have the character’s game statistics ready, it’s
time to come up with some more details about their life. A
character's data includes things that generally don’t affect
how they work in the game but reveal personal information
about themselves and their history. These can have even
bigger impacts upon their stories than their powers.

Remember that none of these details are carved in stone.
That's why you use a pencil to write them down—or why
there’s a backspace key on your keyboard. Nothing about
your character is permanent until you play that character
in a game, and even then, things can change.

Feel free to write down your
first ideas for your character. If
you get a better idea as you
go along, you can always
rearrange the details so
they fit the rest of the
character like a glove—or
maybe a mask.

Art hw luciana Varchin
Codename

This is the name the character is known by publicly—
assuming it’s different from their real name. If it’s not, just
put their real name down here.

The codename usually says something about the
character's powers or their relation to others. Sometimes
both. For instance, characters with the name Spider-Man are
male and have spider-related powers.

However, it’s entirely up to you. Captain Marvel's name,
for example, doesn’t say anything about their powers or
gender. It’s more about who the character is to the world.

Sometimes, a character’s codename is a thinly veiled
play on their real name. Professor X, for instance, is not just
a nickname for Professor Charles Xavier. The X also refers
to the X-Gene that all mutants carry.

Real Name

This is the character's given name—or at least the one they're
known by to most people. Names can be complicated things,
often encapsulating details about the character's ancestry
and the things or people their parents valued.

If you like, you can write down alternate names here
too. These might include married names, well-used aliases
and nicknames. Anything the character might answer to.

If the character has a secret identity, they usually keep
this name private from those they encounter in their work as
a super hero. They might share it with a few trusted friends
and family, but the more people who know their secret, the
likelier it is that it won't remain a secret for long.

Sometimes, the character doesn’t even know their given
name anymore, much like how the original Wolverine didn't
for many years.

Height

Put down whatever height you'd like here. A character does
not need to tower over others to be a super hero. Just ask the
famously short Wolverine (Logan).

If you want the character to be particularly tall or short,
they might also need to have a trait or power that accounts
for their difference in size. If you're playing a young character,
they might be naturally smaller than an adult, of course.

Weight

Put down whatever weight you'd like here. Super heroes
tend to be physically fit, but their weight can vary a lot due
to powers and other traits.

In this game, a character's size is determined by their
weight. Average size ranges from 100 to 400 pounds. If the
character is smaller or bigger than that, they should have
a trait or power that accounts for the difference.

Gender

This is entirely your call, as the character prefers to define
it. Some characters with shape-shifting powers can change
genders at will. In such cases, make a note of that, but put
down here what their standard or preferred gender might be.

Eyes
Put down the color of the character's eyes here. If there's
anything unusual about them, describe that here as well.

Hair
Describe the character's hair. What color is it? Is it long or
short? Straight, kinky, spiky, curly? Are they bald?

This can, of course, change throughout the game. Storm,
for instance, is known for having worn her hair in many
different ways.

Distinguishing Features
Here’s where you write down anything out of the ordinary
about the character's physique. This includes things like
scars, tattoos and missing (or extra!) parts, or if they have
askin color outside the norm for humans, like green or blue.
Some features can be like a teaser for a story. How did
they get that scar? What does that tattoo mean to them?
Why is their skin white when most of their people are blue?
You don’t have to answer all those questions straightaway,
but you should keep them in mind as you develop the
character further.

Occupation
This is part of the character’s backstory, so put down the
occupation you chose for them here.

Origin
This is the other part of the character's backstory, the source
of their powers. List their Origin here.

Teams
Is the character a member of any team or organization? Are they
part of the Avengers? The Defenders? The Fantastic Four? The
X-Men? S.H.LE.L.D.? Maybe even an unwitting pawn of Hydra?
Note that some heroes are or have been members of many
different teams. Lots of teams change their rosters frequently.
You might want to ask your Narrator about this to see
what sorts of possibilities might be open to you. With their
permission, the character could be part of just about anything.
The character could even be part of an all-new team that you
and your fellow players concoct.

Base
This is where the character hangs up their costume at the
end of the day. In most cases, you can just list a city, but you
can be as general or particular as you like, right down toa
street address. Maybe they don't have a permanent place they
call home, in which case you can list their base as “mobile.”

Many Marvel heroes reside in New York City, but your
character can live anywhere you like—and can be from
anywhere too. Some characters have multiple bases they
can crash at on any given day. Others have homes they go
back to only infrequently, sometimes on other planets or
even in other dimensions.

This information can, of course, change throughout play.
If the character’s home is destroyed, for instance, they're
going to have to find a new one, after all.

History

This is a biography for the character, something that
summarizes the story of their lives until the game begins. The
amount of space on the sheet is enough for a good start, but if
you need more, feel free to add a blank sheet and keep going.

“an
NF

Some people like to fill in as much about their history
as possible, going generations back into their character's
ancestry. Others prefer to work with minimal details and
make it up as they go. There's no right way to handle this.
Just do what you prefer.

You can also add to this part of the character sheet as
you go, developing their history more and keeping track of
what happens during their adventures. Or you can play it
loose and trust your memory.

A good history concentrates on details that are intriguing
or could become important during play. Feel free to ignore
everything else.

If you like, you can write this part up as if it was the
recap page of your favorite comic book, the part that tells
you what's happened up to this point. Give just enough detail
about the character to catch everyone up and let them know
where they are now.

Personality

The character profiles feature this section as a means of
giving a player hints on how to play the character. Are
they gruff or kind? Do they have an interesting accent or
a particular attitude? These help players keep in tune with
established characters that other players might already have
extensive experience with.

When creating your own character, you can use this
section for notes on how you expect the character to act.
Remember that you can change things around to what you
think works best. The words written here aren't meant to
restrict but to inspire.

Creating a Character the Marvel Way
Remember, this game is not just a super-hero game. It’s a
Marvel game! That means your character should be in the
tradition of all of Marvel’s characters. It’s not their flashy
powers or their outlandish outfits that make them who they
are—it’s the person behind the mask.

Spider-Man isn’t the same character without the losses
Peter Parker experienced and the sense of responsibility they
instilled in him. Iron Man is just a manina fancy suit of power
armor without Tony Stark's ego, emotional issues and altruism.
The Thing would only be a monster without the grumpy,
determined and courageous man stuck inside his rocky skin!

Your character is not just a set of stats and a list of powers.
Take time to explore their history and personality. Think
about their daily lives, the people they hope to protect with
their powers, the causes they are willing to fight for and their
weaknesses or flaws. Give yourself and your fellow players a
reason to identify with them and care about them so you can
all cheer each other on together.

While you can have all sorts of spectacular battles in this
game, this is not a tabletop combat game. It’s a role-playing
game. Knowing the character and the role they hope to play
in the world around them is sure to make your time playing
the game even more fitting for the Marvel Multiverse.

For this example, we're going to build a brand-new character.
You can skip over this for now if you like and come back
later after you've read the rest of the book, which explains
other steps in detail.

Zmaeamamaamawaamawaawawaaaaaawawaawaawaawawaweeweeea 2 ae

Character Concept
We want to play a college student who attends Empire State
University in Manhattan. Late one night, the character is
studying at the New York Public Library’s main branch (the
Schwarzman Building) when robbers break into the place,
looking for a magic book. While hiding from the robbers,
the character discovers that ancient tome, and it magically
transforms them into Young Lion, defender of public knowledge.
We're going to leave the other details like hair color,
gender and personality blank for now. If you like, you can fill
them in later and make a version of Young Lion of your own.

Rank

First, we talk with the Narrator and the rest of the players
and decide that we're going to create a Rank 1 character
to fit well with the game and the rest of the team. We're
starting off at the lowest rank possible, but that just gives
the characters more room to grow.

We also decide that we're going to put a rank cap of 4on
the characters, as we want to have the kinds of adventures
that characters of that rank often have. That doesn’t mean we
can’t change our minds later, but that should work for now.

Ability Scores
Since Young Lion is Rank 1, they have 5 ability score points
to spread among the six abilities. At Rank 1, those abilities
are currently capped at a maximum of 4.

We put 2 points into Melee and 1 point each into Agility,
Resilience and Vigilance. That uses up all our points.

We then figure out Young Lion’s ability defenses by adding
+10 to each ability score. So far, our hero looks like this:

ABILITY SCORES
Ability Score

Ability Ability Defense

Resilience
Vigilance

Backstory

Now it’s time to pick Young Lion’s origin and occupation,
along with any extra traits. Since the book they got their
powers from is arcane in nature, we pick the Magic origin.
That gives them the tags Sorcerous and Supernatural.

For an occupation, we pick Student. That gives them
the tags Mentor and Obligation: School, and the trait
Quick Learner.

At Rank 1, Young Lion gets to choose one extra trait.
Looking over the list, we decide that Young Lion has a temper,
so we choose Berserker.

We also decide that Young Lion wants to help people
rather than harm them, so we give them the tag Heroic. Also,
they're not sure about telling people about their powers yet,
so we take the Secret Identity tag too. If that changes later,
we can switch over to a Public Identity tag then.

(2)
We also would like Young Lion to have claws. We pick the
Signature Weapon tag to cover that.

Inall, Young Lion has two traits: Berserker and Quick Learner.
They also have seven tags: Heroic, Mentor, Obligation: School,
Secret Identity, Sorcerous, Supernatural and Signature Weapon.

Powers
Finally, it’s time to pick Young Lion’s powers. As a Rank 1
character, they can have up to four powers.

We decide to start with the power set Melee Weapons,
which represents Young Lion’s razor-sharp claws. Since we
didn’t pick the Extreme Appearance tag, we decide the claws
are magical and can appear and disappear at will.

We look through the Melee Weapons powers and decide
to pick Vicious Attack and Hit & Run.

We also pick Healing Factor and Mighty 1, which are
basic powers.

Other Scores
To wrap it all up, we calculate Young Lion’s other scores.

Health: Young Lion’s Resilience is 1. We multiply that by
30 to get 30 Health.

Focus: Young Lion’s Vigilance is 1. We multiply that by
30 to get 30 Focus.

Damage Multipliers: Young Lion is Rank 1, so their base
damage multiplier is 1. Their power Mighty 1 adds 1 to their
Melee damage modifier. The others are unaffected. Their
damages are:

YouNG LIon’s DAMAGES
Ability Ability Score
(dMarvelx2)+2

(dMarvelx1)+1
(dMarvelx1)
(dMarvelx1)

Initiative Modifier: Young Lion’s Vigilance is 1, so their
Initiative Modifier is +1.

Speed: The base Run Speed is 5 spaces. Young Lion’s Agility
and size don’t affect that, so it stays at 5 spaces. Their Climb,
Jump and Swim Speeds are all half that, or 3 spaces each.

Size: Since none of Young Lion’s traits or powers affect
their size, they are average size.

Karma: Young Lion is Rank 1, so they have 1 Karma.

Character Data

We purposely left much of Young Lion's character data blank
so that you can customize the character to your own liking. If
you want to use them ina game, just fill in those last details,
and you're good to go.

If your character hasn't already hit their rank cap, they
can move up from one rank to the next during play. To do
so, the character needs to hit certain milestones established
by your Narrator in conjunction with the rest of the players
in the group. These usually involve things like completing

a large adventure or a series of smaller adventures, but the
rate at which characters can improve their rank can vary
from group to group. Some rocket straight up to their rank
caps, while others take their time.

Chapter 10 has details on how to set expectations and
measure progress for character advancement. There are no
Narrator-only secrets in that chapter, so feel free to read the
information there to learn more.

Advancements are usually handled between play
sessions, after the character has reached their current goal.
Alternatively—especially if the advancement in rank
involves the addition of powers from new power sets rather
than new powers from current ones—they can happen at
dramatic moments in the middle of a game.

Rank Bonuses
When a character rises in rank, they gain the following
improvements:

RESOURCES BY RANK
Ability
Rank Points

Damage Multiplier,

Powers Karma & Traits

INCREASES PER RANK

Ability

Rank Points
+1 +5

Damage Multiplier,
Karma & Traits

+1

Powers
+4

Be sure to recalculate the following things as well if they
are based on things that have changed:

> Ability defenses
> Health

> Focus

> Damage bonuses
> Initiative Modifier
> Speeds

Reaching the Rank Cap
While you can have incredible adventures that help your
character improve by rising in rank, remember that’s not the
main point of a super-hero game like this. Most characters
still have countless adventures ahead of them once they
reach their rank cap, and your hero should be no different.
The incentive to keep playing comes not from gaining
rank bonuses but from defeating horrible villains, saving
the world and generally helping people out. For most heroes,
that provides plenty of motivation, even over the course of
decades of adventures.

(8)

“~~
J

BACKSTORIES

A CHARACTER IS MORE THAN A SIMPLE COLLECTION OF
abilities and scores. By the time they enter a game, they
have a whole life behind them, a series of situations and
choices that form their backstory.

Acharacter’s backstory is the sum of everything they’ve
done up to that point in time. To keep things simple, we

break that down into two categories: origins and occupations.

Origins are often things that are beyond the character's
control. They were born that way or something happened to
make them that way, and the situation is often permanent. If
the character is a mutant, for instance, they are always going
to be a mutant. If the character becomes a gamma mutate after

exposure to gamma rays, there's little they can do to change that.

These origins often bring access to powers. Sometimes
that means the character can have just about any kind of
power (like if they are a mutant), and other times, the origin
determines what powers the character winds up with (like
if they are a vampire).

Occupations, on the other hand, are ways that the
character spends their time or makes a living. This can range

from being a student to a doctor to a soldier or anything else.

These occupations often bring with them a set of traits—skills

or resources particular to people who have that occupation.

Most characters have only one origin and one occupation
to start with. Some have more, especially if they’ve been
around for a while.

Both origins and occupations come with labels known
as traits and tags that help describe how they define the
character in game terms.

A trait is a label with a mechanical effect in the game. It
can affect abilities or dice rolls or something else entirely,
but it has a definitive effect.

A tag is a label that has only a narrative effect in the
game. A good example would be Secret Identity. This tag
says something important about the character, how they
act and who they trust, but it doesn’t affect the mechanics
in the game at all.

Both traits and tags are described in full later on in
this chapter.

Challenging Labels

Not all labels are entirely beneficial. In fact, some of them
can cause a character all sorts of problems. Any time that
happens, though, the Narrator should give the character a
point of Karma to make up for it.

Whether or not a label is challenging for a character
often depends on the context. A secret identity, for instance,
can help protect the character's friends and family from
being attacked by the character’s enemies. But keeping
something so important from those same people can cause
the character all sorts of headaches.

Players can purposefully put their characters in
situations in which their labels might cause them problems
as a means of gaining Karma for the characters. In fact,
Narrators should encourage this kind of behavior, as it can
make for wonderful moments of tension.

However, not every moment in a game needs to revolve
around the characters’ challenging labels. If such behavior
becomes disruptive or tedious, the Narrator can puta stop to
it—at least temporarily—by suspending the Karma reward.

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Gaining and Losing Labels

Characters can gain labels through game play. These should
arise naturally as the game's story evolves, and the Narrator
should award them to the character when it’s appropriate.

For instance, if the character pursues a new career, they
could add a new occupation—and maybe lose the old one.
If they lose their sight, they would gain the Vision Issues
tag—at least until they get their sight back.

It's also possible for a character to lose labels during the
game or to switch labels. For example, if a character with a
secret identity is unmasked before the world, they should
switch from the Secret Identity tag to the Public Identity tag.

Traits and tags can also be juggled according to the context
of the game. For instance, if a character who has the Public
Identity tag starts saving the world while wearing an entirely
different costume, they could wind up with both the Public
Identity and the Secret Identity tags.

Super-powered characters have intriguing origins that
help explain their powers, even if those characters don't
always fully understand how or why. Some characters—like
mutants—were born with their powers. Others gained them
accidentally, through some strange and often unrepeatable
scientific experiment or mishap. Still others acquired their
powers through years of hard work or diligent study. And
some don't really have powers at all but instead rely on
technological wizardry.

Several origins are listed here. Each comes with a package of
traits and tags that are defined later in this chapter. Additionally,
some come with powers, which are described in Chapter 7.

If you don't find the origin you want for your character
listed here, feel free to make up new ones on your own.
Just be sure to get your Narrator’s approval before you use
them in play.

The labels associated with some origins can change over
time and with the particular setting of a game. For instance,
at the time the X-Men were founded, being a mutant meant
being hounded for being different. In more modern tales,
mutants are still hounded, but they are also welcome to
become citizens of the mutant homeland of Krakoa, which
comes with certain privileges.

Note that the powers listed here do not come for free.
When creating a character, these powers must be picked first.

Alien

The character is not human and probably not from Earth or
at least Earth-616. The Marvel Multiverse features all sorts
of different alien races. The most common of these—Kree,
Skrulls and so on—have their own entries. If the character
doesn't fit one of those, then this origin applies.

Examples: Devil Dinosaur, Gamora, Groot, Rocket Raccoon.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (common).
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Kree
The character is a member of the Kree, a humanoid race
from the planet Hala who formed the interstellar Kree
Empire in the region of space known as the Large Magellanic
Cloud. They resemble humans but are stronger and tougher.
Many of them have blue skin, but a good number of them
have pink skin.

The air on Hala has much more nitrogen in it, and Kree
who are raised in it (or something like it) have a hard time
breathing the air on Earth.

Examples: Captain Marvel (Mar-Vell), Hulkling (half Skrull
and half Kree), Magnitron (Yon-Rogg), Ronan the Accuser.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (if blue-skinned).
Traits: Breathe Different, Enhanced Physique.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Shi‘ar

The character is a member of the Shi’ar, an avian humanoid
race from the planet Chandilar who formed the interstellar
Shi’ar Empire in the Shi’ar Galaxy. They resemble humans
but are much stronger and have feathers instead of hair
on their heads.

Examples: Adam-X, Deathbird, Majestrix Lilandra Neramani.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance.

Traits: Enhanced Physique.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Skrull
The character is amember of the Skrull, a reptilian humanoid
race of shape-shifters who formed the interstellar Skrull
Empire. In their natural form, they have green skin, red or
green eyes, pointed ears and furrowed chins. They sprang
from the planet Skrullos in the Andromeda Galaxy.
The original Skrulls could not shape-shift, but the
Celestials experimented on them to form Eternal Skrulls
and Deviant Skrulls, much like they did with humans on
Earth. The Deviant Skrulls became the dominant form of
the species, driving the originals to extinction.

Examples: Hulkling (half Skrull and half Kree), Lyja,
Super-Skrull (KI1'rt).

Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (in their
natural form).

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Powers: Disguise, Extended Reach, Flexible Bones, Shape-
shift, Slip Free.

Atlantean
The character is amember Homo mermanus, a variant race of
humanity. Atlanteans breathe water through gills on both
sides of their neck, and they cannot breathe air for longer
than ten minutes.

If they live in the Atlantic Ocean, they likely have blue
skin and hail from Atlantis. If they come from the Pacific
Ocean, they likely have green skin and live in Lemuria.

Examples: Attuma, Sub-Mariner (Namor), Namora,
Warlord Krang.

Tags: Amphibious, Extreme Appearance.

Traits: Breathe Different, Enhanced Physique.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Powers: Heightened Senses, Speed Swim.

Deviant

The character is a member of Homo descendus, a variant race
of humanity created by the Celestials. They are scattered
across Earth, but they mainly live in underground cities
beneath the Pacific Ocean, close to Lemuria.

Only one hundred Deviants were originally created, but
many more have been born over the millennia since then.
They vary a great deal physically, coming in all sizes, shapes,
colors and textures. Each is born with a unique physical
mutation, and they have the latent genetic ability to develop
powers, much like mutants.

Eternals are compelled to kill Deviant mutates as part
of their principle “Correct excess deviation.”

Examples: Brother Tode, Karkas, Kro.
Tags: Extreme Appearance, Hunted.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Eternal

The character is a member of Homo immortalis, a variant race

of humanity created by the Celestials. They are scattered

across Earth, but their headquarters lies in the city of Olympia,

high in the mountains in Greece and folded into an echo

dimension. Some live on Titan (a moon of Saturn) instead.
The Eternals live by three principles:

> Protect Celestials.

P Protect the Machine (a sentient A.I. deeply
connected with the Earth).

P Correct excess deviation.

Only one hundred Eternals were originally created,
and only two have been born since: Thanos and Eros. The

aN

character is either one of the lesser-known one hundred or
anew Eternal brought to life through extraordinary means.

Through a ritual usually initiated by the Prime Eternal
(their official leader), Eternals can be called to be part of a
collective being known as the Uni-Mind.

Examples: Ikaris, Sersi, Sprite, Thanos, Thena.
Tags: Eternally Immortal, Mahd Wy’ry.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

High Tech

The character's powers arise from high-tech devices that are
well beyond the limits of modern-day engineering. This can
come in many forms.

Examples: Doctor Octopus (Otto Octavius), Gauntlet
(Joseph Green), Mysterio (Quentin Beck), the Trapster.
Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Android

The character is an artificial person. Their body (when they
have one) is made of plastic, metal and circuitry rather
than flesh and blood. Their powers come from technology
embedded in their artificial body.

Examples: Human Torch (Jim Hammond), Jocasta,
Machine Man, Vision.

Tags: A.I., Extreme Appearance (common).
Traits: Tech Reliance.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

High Tech: Battle Suit
The character wears a high-tech suit that grants them powers.
When the battle suit is removed, the character no longer has
access to the powers it grants. They are entirely—or at least
mostly—normal underneath.

Most characters with this origin have the Extreme
Appearance tag when wearing their battle suit.

Examples: Iron Man (Tony Stark), Ironheart, War Machine
Tags: Extreme Appearance (common when in Battle Suit).
Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Cybernetics

The character has high-tech, surgically embedded implants
that grant them powers. These cannot be removed without
great care or pain.

Ifthe implants are obvious, the character gets the Extreme
Appearance tag. Otherwise, the implants have been hidden
inside their body (as with the lacing of Wolverine’s skeleton
with adamantium) and might be visible only when in use
(like when Wolverine uses his claws), if then.

Examples: Deathlok (all of them), Sabretooth, Winter
Soldier, Wolverine (Logan).

Tags: Extreme Appearance (common).

Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Pym Particles
The character uses Pym Particles (named after their inventor,
Henry Pym) to dramatically grow or shrink in size.

After long-enough exposure to Pym Particles, many
people are able to generate such particles on their own

53
Vw

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

without the need of external aid. They may still need to use
extra Pym Particles to reach extremely large or small sizes.

Examples: Ant-Man (Scott Lang), Giant-Man (Rax Malhotra),
Wasp (Janet Van Dyne).

Traits: Tech Reliance (at first).

Powers: Grow 1 and/or Shrink 1 (at least).

Inhuman

The character is a member of Homo sapiens inhumanus, a
variant race of humanity genetically engineered by the
Kree. For millennia, they lived isolated from the world, but
they emerged in recent years, led by Black Bolt.

All Inhumans carry a latent gene that can be activated
by the Terrigen Mist. The explosion of a Terrigen Bomb
spread the mist across the entire planet, revealing that many
humans (including Kamala Khan) had Inhuman genetics.
Black Bolt was later forced to destroy the Inhumans, leaving
few outside of the royal family alive.

The character is one of those rare Inhumans who survived.

Examples: Black Bolt, Crystal, Karnak, Lockjaw, Medusa,
Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan).
Tags: Inhuman Genes.

Magic

The character's powers arise from supernatural means. There
are many different traditions within magic, each with their
own teachings.

Examples: Clea, Doctor Voodoo (Jericho Drumm), Enchantress.
Tags: Supernatural.

Magic: Chaos Magic
The character is able to use chaos magic, which allows them to
bend reality to their will. It stems from the ancient god Chthon.

Examples: Morgan Le Fay, Scarlet Witch, Wiccan.
Tags: Chaotic, Supernatural.

Magic: Demonic

The character taps into (or is cursed by) the powers of Hell.
They may be a native of one of the Nine Circles of Hell, or
their powers might simply come from a Hellish source.

Examples: Belasco, Blackheart, Daimon Hellstrom,
Dormammu.
Tags: Cursed, Supernatural.

Magic: Sorcery
The character’s powers arise from the study and
practice of sorcery.

Examples: Agatha Harkness, Ancient One (Yao), Doctor
Strange, Magik, Wong.
Tags: Sorcerous, Supernatural.

Monstrous

The character is some kind of monster. They may have a
human form—or may have once been human—but they get
their powers from their unnatural monstrousness.

Examples: Cullen Bloodstone, Living Mummy, Man-Thing.
Traits: Monster.

Monstrous: Vampire

The character was once alive but was embraced by a vampire
and has risen from death as a vampire too. They can transmit
this magical disease to victims of their choosing.

When a character becomes a vampire, they go up one
rank and gain the listed tags, traits and powers. They do
not gain any additional powers or traits from this bump in
rank, but they do gain 5 ability points and add +1 to their
damage multiplier. If they have the Heroic tag, they also
add 1 to their Karma.

Examples: Baron Blood, Dracula, Blade (half vampire).
Tags: Alternate Forms: Bat/Mist/Wolf, Deceased,
Imageless.

Traits: Anathema: Garlic/Holy Symbols (including Holy
Water)/Sunshine, Bloodthirsty, Monster, Weaknesses:
Silver/Wood.

Powers: Animal Communication: Bats/Rodents, Command,
Healing Factor, Leech Life, Mighty 1, Sturdy 2, Telepathic Link.
Limitation: Unless the character has another origin, they
cannot choose other powers.

Monstrous: Werewolf

The character is afflicted with lycanthropy, a magical disease
that causes them to take on the shape of a werewolf during the
three nights of the full moon. They can transmit this magical
disease to victims of their choosing who survive their attacks.

When a character becomes a werewolf, they gain the
Lunar Transformation and Alternate Form tags. When the
character takes on their werewolf form, they go up one rank
and gain the rest of the listed tags, traits and powers. They
do not gain any additional powers or traits from this bump
in rank, but they do gain 5 ability points and add +1 to their
damage multiplier. If they have the Heroic tag, they also add
1to their Karma. When they return to human form, they lose
the benefits of their werewolf form.

The character can switch forms voluntarily at any point—
except during the three nights that the moon is at its fullest.
On those nights, while the moon is above the horizon, the
character must transform into a werewolf and is ruled by
their animal nature. They cannot help but hunt and attack
any people or creatures they come across, no matter if they
are friend or foe.

Examples: Werewolf by Night (Jack Russell), Werewolf by
Night (Jake Gomez).

Tags: Alternate Form: Werewolf/Wolf, Extreme
Appearance (in werewolf form), Lunar Transformation.
Traits: Berserker, Monster, Weakness: Silver.

Powers: Evasion, Healing Factor, Heightened Senses,
Mighty 1, Sturdy 2.

Limitation: Unless the character has another origin, they
cannot choose other powers.

Mutant

The character's powers spring from them being a member
of the subspecies Homo superior. They have a latent X-Gene
that grants them powers, often triggered at adolescence.

Examples: Cyclops, Jean Grey, Storm, Wolverine (Logan),
Wolverine (Laura Kinney).
Tags: Hounded, Krakoan, X-Gene.

<
Vv
Art by Takashi Okazaki & Edgar Delgado

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Mythic
The character is a creature or person of myth and legend.
While they may appear human, they are something else.

Examples: Angela (Aldrif Odinsdottir), Fairies, Malekith.
Tags: Supernatural.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Mythic: Asgardian

The character is a member of the Asgardian people,

resembling the Norse gods. They call Asgard their home.
The character can be one of the many gods who have

been named throughout history, or they can be one of the

lesser-known gods of Asgard. They should choose something

that they are the god of.

Examples: Hela, Heimdall, Loki, Sif, Thor (Odinson).
Tags: Supernatural, Worshipped.
Traits: God Heritage, Enhanced Physique.

Mythic: Olympian

The character is a member of the Olympian people,
resembling the gods of Ancient Greece and Rome. They call
Olympus their home.

The character can be one of the many gods who have been
named throughout history, or they can be one of the lesser-
known gods of Olympus. They should choose something that
they are the god of.

Examples: Ares, Athena, Hercules, Zeus.
Tags: Supernatural, Worshipped.
Traits: God Heritage, Enhanced Physique.

Special Training

The character's powers come from long hours of practice.
Their intense focus grants them abilities that would
astonish most people.

Examples: Hawkeye (Clint Barton), Hawkeye (Kate
Bishop), Nick Fury Jr., Shang-Chi.

Traits: Determination.

Limitation: Unless the character has another origin,
they cannot choose powers that grant them superhuman
abilities. Allowed power sets include Martial Arts, Melee
Weapons, Ranged Weapons, Shield Bearer and Tactics.
They can also choose basic powers a regular human could
reasonably have. See the Basic powers list on page 80.

Spirit of Vengeance
The character has been possessed by a Spirit of Vengeance.
Their purpose is to find sinners and impose penance.
When a character becomes possessed by a Spirit of
Vengeance, they gain the Alternate Form tag, which they
can use voluntarily at any point. When the character takes
on their Ghost Rider form, they gain access to the listed tags,
traits and powers. When they return to human form, they
lose the benefits of their Ghost Rider form.

Examples: Ghost Rider (Johnny Blaze), Ghost Rider
(Danny Ketch), Ghost Rider (Robbie Reyes).

Tags: Alternate Form: Ghost Rider, Cursed, Supernatural.
Powers: Elemental Protection 2, Environmental
Protection, Healing Factor, Hellfire Chains, Mighty 2,

Penance Stare, Possess Vehicle, and Sense Sins. They
should select most of the rest of their powers from the
Magic: Demonic and Elemental Control: Hellfire sets.
Limitation: The character should be at least Rank 4.
Unless the character has another origin, they cannot
choose other powers.

Symbiote

The character has bonded with one of the Klyntar, a race of
alien symbiotes created by the alien god Knull. Most of these
creatures on Earth display spiderlike powers.

When a character bonds with a symbiote, they go up
one rank and gain the listed tags, traits and powers. Any
remaining powers they select are often from the Spider-
Powers set but do not have to be. Many symbiotes have the
Disguise power.

If the symbiote is Venom or one of its progeny, Spider-Man
(Peter Parker) cannot gain any benefits from his Spider-Sense
power against the bonded character.

Examples: Carnage, Venom (Eddie Brock), Shriek.
Traits: Anathema: Extreme Heat/Extreme Sonics.
Powers: Environmental Protection, Mighty 1.

Unknown

The character has developed powers but is not entirely sure
how. It could be that the player or the Narrator knows, but
the character does not, or maybe nobody else does either.
Astonishing things happen all the time in the Marvel
Multiverse, and there’s no way to classify them all.

The source of these powers may be explained in time. It
could turn out that the character actually has a standard
type of origin, or it could be that they have an origin that’s
utterly unique.

Examples: Squirrel Girl, Taskmaster.
Tags: Mysterious.

Weird Science

The character's powers arose from a scientific experiment or
accident that’s hard—if not impossible—to reproduce. Often,
they had the latent genetic potential to develop powers and
were somehow exposed to the right triggers—which would
have likely killed most other people.

These kinds of characters are sometimes called mutates.
The difference between a mutate and a mutant is that a
mutant’s powers come to them naturally, but a mutate’s
powers require a triggering incident that might never
happen. In this sense, Inhumans are all mutates who share
a gene with a known trigger: the Terrigen Mist.

Examples: Captain America (Steve Rogers), Daredevil
(Matt Murdock), Invisible Woman, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage,
Spider-Man (Miles Morales), Spider-Man (Peter Parker).
Traits: Weird.

Weird Science: Gamma Mutate

The character has a genetic mutation that gave them
powers once they were exposed to enough gamma radiation,
transforming them physically. This often gives them
a monstrous appearance and changes their coloration
drastically, usually to green, although some become red or

(8)
even blue. They can often transform back into their original
form as well.

Examples: Doc Samson, Harpy (Betty Banner), Hulk
(Bruce Banner), Red Hulk (Thaddeus “Thunderbolt” Ross).
Tags: Extreme Appearance (common in gamma mutate form),
Green Door, Immunity: Gamma Radiation, Radioactive.
Traits: Weird.

While super heroes spend a great deal of their time trying
to help others and to make the world a better place, many of
them have other responsibilities, including having to work
for a living. These things that they do are called occupations.
As part of a character's occupation, they tend to pick up
skills, contacts and other resources that can come in handy
in the course of the game. These are listed as a package of
traits and tags that the character gains for free.
Each character starts with a single occupation. They can
pick up others throughout play, at the Narrator’s discretion,
and they can lose occupations too.
An occupation is generally something the character is
involved in now or in their recent past. For instance, if the
character is young, they probably go to school and should
pick the student occupation. Older characters probably
also went to school in their younger years, but they often
move on to another occupation. They should ignore the
student occupation and pick one that better fits their
current occupation.
Numerous occupations are described in this section,
but such a list cannot be exhaustive. If you have an
idea for a new occupation or would like to tailor one
of the current ones to better fit your character, go
right ahead. Just be sure to discuss it with your
Narrator too.

Adventurer
The character focuses on having adventures. Perhaps they're
independently wealthy and don’t need another occupation,
or maybe they hire out their services.

Examples: Iron Fist (Danny Rand), Luke Cage, Hawkeye
(Kate Bishop).

Tags: Black Market Access.

Traits: Fearless, Connections: Super Heroes or Villains.

Assassin
The character is a hired killer. They might tell themselves
that this is for the greater good. They might be picky about
who they take on as clients or targets, but the core of their
occupation is ending lives.

Examples: Arcade, Bullseye, Elektra, the Punisher.
Tags: Streetwise, Villainous (common).
Traits: Connections: Criminal, Signature Attack.

Criminal
The character did something that put them on the wrong
side of the law. They might have spent time in jail for their
crimes, or they might have gotten away with them scot-free.
The fact that they break the law doesn’t necessarily make

them a bad person, but law enforcers usually don’t care
about such distinctions.

If they are currently wanted by the law for their crimes,
they should also take the Hunted tag. If they have served
time, they should take the Convict tag too.

Examples: Ant-Man (Scott Lang), Black Cat, Gambit.
Tags: Black Market Access, Streetwise.
Traits: Connections: Criminal.

Educator

The character educates others. They might be a grade-
school teacher, a college professor or some other kind of
instructor. They do their best to bring the knowledge they
have to other people.

Examples: Agatha Harkness, Blue Marvel, Professor X.
Traits: Connections: Community, Font of Information, Presence.

e A er , 44 =
} = > SS
) i \| Ay
| So EAS) Ls
io \ vee lo
p 3) | 4 S
=| fi = SS
s) =
>
s\\
a:
oe
Engineer

The character designs and builds things to solve problems.
They sometimes invent brand-new things, but mostly they
take scientific research and apply it to real-world problems.

Examples: Ghost Rider (Robbie Reyes), Iron Man (Tony Stark),
Whiplash.

Tags: Lab Access.

Traits: Gearhead, Inventor.

Entertainer

The character entertains others fora living. They couldbea
singer, a dancer, an actor, a musician, a writer, a filmmaker, a
speaker or something similar. They aren't shy—at least when
on the job—and they work hard to both gain an audience
and keep them engaged.

Examples: Dazzler, Echo, Mysterio, Wonder Man.
Traits: Famous, Presence, Public Speaking.

Health Care Worker

The character is a doctor, nurse, therapist or other person
dedicated to helping heal others. They likely have access to
an office where they practice their craft.

Examples: Doc Samson, Doctor Strange, the Night Nurse
(Linda Carter), Thor (Jane Foster).
Traits: Clinician, First Aid.

Investigator

The character is trained to solve mysteries. This can be as
a private detective or as part of an official law enforcement
organization, ranging from the New York Police Department
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, S.H.I.E.L.D. or even
the Nova Corps.

Examples: Jessica Jones, Misty Knight.
Traits: Connections: Police, Interrogation, Investigation.

Zamaeamamaaaaawaawaaaaaawaawaawaeawaawaawawewawewewewwwas

Journalist

The character works as a reporter or editor for a news
organization. This can range anywhere from the Daily Bugle
to TNM (Threats and Menaces). It can also include any sort of
reporting, whether TV, radio, newspaper or online.

Examples: Silk, Spider-Man (Peter Parker), Venom (Eddie Brock).
Traits: Audience, Connections: Sources, Pundit.

Law Enforcer

The character works as a law enforcement officer. They could
be anything from a town cop to an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. They
have a great deal of authority inside their jurisdiction and
often command respect outside of it as well.

Examples: Nick Fury Jr., Human Torch (Jim Hammond),
Maria Hill, Photon (Monica Rambeau).

Tags: Authority, Backup.

Traits: Interrogation, Investigation.

Lawyer

The character has a law degree and knows how to use it.
They might work for a gigantic and powerful law firm, or
they might have set up their own practice.

Examples: Daredevil (Matt Murdock), Foggy Nelson, She-Hulk.
Traits: Dealmaker, Legal Eagle, Public Speaking.

Leader

The character is the leader of a city, region, state or nation.
This includes things like being the elected mayor of New
York City or the hereditary king of a country.

Examples: Black Bolt, Black Panther (T’Challa), Doctor
Doom, Sub-Mariner (Namor), Thor (Odinson).

Tags: Authority, Powerful.

Traits: Presence.

Se
Vv
Military
The character serves (or at least once served) in a military
organization and relies on that training. They can sometimes
call on their fellow soldiers for help. They may have worked
for a nation or possibly as part of a mercenary outfit.

If they are on active duty, their time is often not their
own, and they should take the tag Obligation: Duty.

Examples: Captain America (Steve Rogers), Captain
Marvel (Carol Danvers), War Machine, Wolverine (Logan).
Traits: Battle Ready, Connections: Military, Situational
Awareness.

Outsider

The character comes from another planet, dimension or time
and is not familiar with how things work on this Earth. They
may have had another occupation back where they came
from, but it’s not generally applicable here.

Examples: Groot, Rocket Raccoon, Thor (Odinson).
Traits: Connections: Outsiders, Fresh Eyes, Stranger.

Scientist

The character solves problems by means of scientific research.
They are often among the smartest people in the world, and
other heroes turn to them for their expertise.

Examples: Doctor Octopus (Otto Octavius), Hulk (Bruce Banner),
Mister Fantastic, Moon Girl.

Tags: Lab Access.

Traits: Inventor, Scientific Expertise.

Spy

The character is an expert in espionage. They served as a
spy fora nation or corporation and know how to find things
out about people and organizations.

Examples: Black Widow (Natasha Romanoff), Peggy Carter,
Winter Soldier.

Tags: Black Market Access.

Traits: Connections: Espionage, Leverage.

Student

The character attends school or college on a full-time basis.

What they study or focus on is up to them and their school.
Most people start out with this occupation, but once they

graduate, they move on to something new. If that happens

with your character, you can then select a new occupation

to replace this one.

Examples: Moon Girl, Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan), Spider-
Man (Miles Morales).

Tags: Mentor, Obligation: School.

Traits: Quick Learner.

Tycoon

The character is wildly wealthy and well-known. They want
for nothing, and they make a splash wherever they go. They
get invited to the best parties and let into all the VIP sections.

Examples: Iron Man (Tony Stark), Iron Monger (Obadiah
Stane), Mandarin, Sunspot, Wasp (Janet Van Dyne).
Tags: Rich.

Traits: Connections: Celebrities, Famous.

A trait is a label that has a game mechanic associated with

it. Some of them are minor powers or abilities, while others

simply represent skills. Many traits are available to anyone,

while others are restricted to characters of certain origins.
A character can acquire traits in three main ways.

> As part of an origin.
> As part of an occupation.
> Asan extra trait.

A character gets one extra trait for each rank they have.
For example, a hero at Rank 4 can choose four extra traits.

Dozens of traits—including all of those that arise from
origins and occupations—are described below. Many
trait descriptions are kept purposefully vague so the
player can fill in the details. This is a great way to make a
character feel unique.

Abrasive

The character rubs people the wrong way. This gives them
trouble when trying to make Ego checks to persuade someone
to help them out. It gives them an edge when they're trying
to make Ego checks to intimidate someone.

Anathema
The character suffers direct harm when exposed to a
particular substance. They cannot voluntarily enter the
same space with it. If they are touched by it, they instantly
suffer the damage of a Rank 3 attack roll that automatically
succeeds. This continues each turn until they are separated
from the substance or are killed or destroyed.

Damage caused by Anathema ignores all damage
reduction the character has and cannot be healed by their
Healing Factor.

Audience

Many people follow the character’s work and treat them
with the respect they deserve. By making an Ego check, the
character can persuade their audience to provide help in the
form of information or resources. The Narrator determines
the TN of the Ego check based on the favor requested.

Battle Ready
The character is always mentally prepared for any sort of
trouble to start. Add +30 Focus.

Beguiling
The character has an edge when making an Ego check to
persuade someone who could be attracted to them.

Berserker

The character often loses control of their temper. Any time
they take physical damage, they must make an Ego check
with a TN equal to the amount of damage done. If they fail,
they go berserk and must charge at full speed into combat
with the enemy who hurt them.

Being berserk gives the character an edge on all close
attacks and adds +2 to their Melee, Resilience and Ego
defenses. However, it takes -2 from their Agility defense,
and they cannot use ranged weapons.

nf
Vv

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

If the character defeats the enemy who hurt them, they
must then charge to attack the next closest foe.

At the end of the character's turn, they lose 5 Focus. When
their Focus is reduced to the point that the character could
not voluntarily spend any more Focus—or if there are no
enemies in sight—the berserk state automatically ends.

Big

The character's size is big, which applies -1 to their Melee and
Agility defenses, adds +1 to their Run Speed, and increases
their reach to 2. They still occupy a single space.

Bloodthirsty
The character likes hurting people—even killing them.
After they knock someone unconscious, they must make a
Challenging Ego check to keep from continuing to attack
them until they’re dead.

A character with this trait cannot take the Heroic tag.

Breathe Different

The character cannot breathe Earth’s air for long. They lose1
point of Health for every minute they do not have some sort
of assistance to allow them to breathe properly.

Clinician
The character has an edge on Logic checks to determine what
is medically wrong with someone they examine.

Clueless

The character tends to shut out things they’re not entirely
focused on. They have trouble on any Vigilance checks to
spot hidden or invisible things. Enemies have an edge on
Agility checks to sneak near or past them.

Combat Expert

The character knows how to handle themselves better
than most. They have an edge on Melee attacks against
enemies of Rank 1.

Combat Reflexes
The character can react quickly in combat. This grants them
one additional reaction each turn.

Connections

The character knows someone with access to and knowledge
of a particular field. The connection could be a reporter, a
police officer, a politician, a mobster and so on. By making an
Ego check, the character can call on their contact to provide
help in the form of clues, information or resources. The
Narrator determines the TN of the Ego check based on the
favor requested.

This trait can be selected multiple times, using many
different types. These include Celebrities, Community,
Criminal, Espionage, Military, Outsiders, Police, Professional,
Sources, Super Heroes and so on.

Dealmaker
The character is skilled at the art of negotiation. They have
an edge on action checks that have to do with making deals.

Determination

The character never gives up, even when they feel like
they're at their worst. While demoralized, they do not gain
trouble on all actions, though they still cannot maintain
concentration or spend further Focus.

Eidetic Memory
The character rarely forgets anything. If their player forgets
something, they can ask the Narrator to remind them.

Enduring Constitution

The character can function for up to 48 hours without sleep
and has an edge on Resilience checks to overcome fatigue
or weariness.

Enhanced Physique

The character is stronger than regular humans. Treat them as
one size bigger for lifting, carrying, swinging and throwing
things. (This does not stack with other factors.)

Extra Occupation
The character has a busy life and has done all sorts of things.
They can choose another occupation.

Extraordinary Origin

The character has an additional origin. This trait can be
selected multiple times, but each time must be cleared with
the Narrator. Take care to make sure that the origins make
some kind of sense when combined together.

Famous
The character is widely known—at least among a certain
group of people or a population. They may be well-liked
or they may be hated, but either way, they are famous.
They have an edge when making an Ego check to persuade
someone who thinks favorably of them. They have trouble
when making an Ego check to persuade someone who
dislikes them.

If the character has a secret identity, this trait works for
only one of their identities. However, it can be taken multiple
times for multiple identities.

Fearless
The character is extremely brave. They have an edge on any
action checks required to deal with fear.

First Aid
The character knows how to administer first aid. They have
an edge on Logic checks to stop bleeding.

Font of Information
The character has an edge on Logic checks having to do
with knowledge.

Free Running
The character has an edge on Agility checks made to perform
acrobatics during a movement action.

«)
Fresh Eyes

The character has their own way of doing
things. This often makes them seem wg
strange to those around them, but it
means they can bring new perspectives

to existing issues. They have an edge

on Logic checks when faced with
something for the first time.

Gearhead

The character knows their way around
machines. They have an edge on ee cu
Logic checks to figure out how any
machine works. Z

Glibness Bb
The character can strike up a
conversation with anyone at any time
and can often convince them to lend
a hand. They have an edge on Ego
checks to persuade characters they
are speaking to for the first time.

God Heritage
The character—or at least one of their
ancestors—is a god. Pick something oN ® ‘ j
that they are the god of. fs ) = s :
They don’t have to be a god that RK ms ‘ ‘
most people have heard of. In fact, ANS oS I= =~ \ & A
they can be the god of something - ¥ eer
entirely new. However, they cannot
generally be the god of something
that’s already been claimed by ay
someone else in their pantheon. .
Other gods are often jealous of ’
their positions and take issue a 2 : — gy j :
with such rivals. — '
The character has an edge when
dealing with something that they g ,
are the god of. : ZE

Restriction: This trait can be  @
selected only by characters witha awe \
mythic origin and an attachment :
to a particular pantheon, like
Asgardian or Olympian.

Gullible F [sB
The character is easy to fool. : :
People lying to them have an edge p “
on their Ego checks to persuade f
the character of something. }

Honest 2

The character is a terrible liar. y , >

They have trouble any time they

make an Ego check that involves 7
telling a lie. However, they have ‘ ‘ Lif
an edge on any friendly Ego
(persuasion) checks in which ; } 7
they're truthful. Vi y: : i :

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Interrogation

The character knows how to ask the right questions in the
right way. They have an edge on Ego or Logic checks made
when asking questions.

Inventor

The character is good at coming up with solutions on the
fly. They have an edge on Logic checks when creating or
repairing things.

Investigation

The character is an expert investigator. They have an edge
on Vigilance checks to spot clues and on Logic checks related
to interpreting clues. If they have access to a forensics lab at
the time, they gain a second edge on such checks.

Iron Will

Enemies have trouble on Ego attacks to control the character's
mind or influence their behavior. Also, the character gains
an edge on Ego checks to break free of mind control or
other compulsions.

Legal Eagle

The character knows the laws of their homeland and can help
others navigate them. They have an edge on Logic checks
when dealing with legalities.

Leverage

The character is good at figuring out what people want and
using it against them. They have an edge on Logic checks
to investigate people and on Ego checks to persuade people
they've investigated.

Loner

The character does not play well with others. They cannot
be given an edge via assistance by someone who is
not a teammate.

Monster

The character is some kind of monster, often of a type spoken
of in legend. They have an edge whenever they attempt to
intimidate someone.

Out of Shape

The character is in poor physical condition. They are
considered one size smaller for the purposes of lifting,
carrying, swinging and throwing things.

Piloting

The character knows how to operate vehicles of all kinds.
They have an edge on Agility checks triggered when piloting
or driving a vehicle during a movement action. This applies
to cars, boats, aircraft and so on.

Presence

The character knows how to command attention on demand.
They have an edge on Ego checks that involve getting people
to pay attention to them or to voluntarily do things for them.

Public Speaking

The character knows how to get the attention of a crowd,
whether that’s at a political rally or in front of a jury ora
classroom. They have an edge on Ego checks when attempting
to persuade groups.

Pundit

The character knows how to break news items and put them
into context to craft a story around them. They have an edge on
Ego or Logic rolls made when giving their opinion via media.

Quick Learner
If the character fails an action check, they gain an edge on
the check if they try the same action again on their next turn.

Scientific Expertise

The character has extensive scientific training. They have
an edge on Logic checks made when dealing with scientific
research. If they have access to an appropriate lab at the
time, they gain a second edge on such checks.

Signature Attack
The character is known for favoring a particular kind of
weapon or attack power. They have an edge when making
attacks that way.

This trait can be taken more than once, but each time
must be with a different kind of weapon or attack power.

Situational Awareness
The character is trained to always keep an eye out for trouble.
They have an edge on initiative checks.

Skeptical
The character is hard to fool. People lying to them have
trouble on their Ego checks to persuade the character
of something.

Small
The character’s size is small, which adds +1 to their Melee and
Agility defenses and takes -1 from their Run Speed.

Sneaky

The character has an edge on Agility checks when sneaking
around. Enemies have trouble on Vigilance checks to detect
the character when the character is invisible or hiding.

Stranger

The character doesn’t understand local customs. They have
trouble on checks made when trying to decipher such things
or when trying to pass themselves off as a local.

Surprising Power

The character can choose a power they normally wouldn't
be able to use. The character will still need to have any
prerequisite powers, but they can ignore rank and origin
requirements. This trait can be selected multiple times.

Tech Reliance
The character relies on technology for powers. When they
take damage that would render them unconscious, they can

“a
Vv
instead choose to lose all of their technology-related powers
and remain conscious with 1 point of Health remaining.

Assuming the character has access to parts and tools, lost
powers can be repaired after a battle.

The character suffers an unusual amount of harm from
certain substances. Any attack made with that substance
ignores all inherent damage reduction the character has
and cannot be healed by their Healing Factor.

The character has something weird (or even wonderful) about
them. This causes people to have strong reactions to them,
both good and bad. They have an edge on all Ego checks to
persuade people inclined to like them and trouble on all Ego
checks against people inclined to dislike them.

TAGS

A tag is a label that describes an aspect of the character but
primarily has a narrative effect rather than a mechanical
one. These define facts about the character: who they are,
where they come from, how they behave and so on. Many
tags are available to anyone, while others are restricted to
characters of certain origins.

Most characters gain tags as part of their origin and
occupation, but these can change throughout play. When
you're creating a character, it’s up to you how many tags
you want your character to have. Just keep in mind that the
tags you pick should fit well with your character concept.

There’s no limit to the number of tags a character can
have. Some characters are more complex than others and can
wind up with many tags. Others are more straightforward
and have only a few tags.

Dozens of tags—including all of those that arise from
origins and occupations—are described below. As with traits,
many descriptions are kept purposefully vague so the player
can fill in the details and make the character feel unique.

The character possesses an artificial intelligence in a
computerized mind. Their digital nature means that copies
or backups can be made of their mind and can even be
transferred into other compatible forms.

The character—or at least one of their ancestors—is not
from Earth. Pick an alien race that they belong to. If they
were not raised on Earth, they should consider taking the
Outsider occupation.

The character can change from their regular human
form into another form and back. When in either form,
the character can only access powers assigned to that
form. In most cases, this means that the character can
use powers only when in their alternate form. This tag
applies to characters that switch from one humanoid form to
another, like Colossus, Emma Frost and many of the Hulks.
It also applies to characters that have inhuman forms, like
werewolves and vampires.

The character can breathe just fine underwater and can see
and hear well in it too.

The character has trouble hearing that can range from partial
to full deafness.

The character has a legal authority of some kind. They might
be a commissioned officer, privateer, bounty hunter, doctor,
firearms dealer, lawyer, pharmacist, police officer, private
investigator, mayor, governor and so on. This tag can be
selected multiple times if appropriate.

The character is part of an organization—like a police force—
that they can call for immediate backup at any time.

The character knows how and where they can buy and sell
hard-to-find and potentially illegal things.

The character has been affected by the chaos lord Chthon.

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Convict
The character has been convicted of a crime, which is reflected
on their record.

Cursed
Willingly or not, the character is affiliated with Hell. This
can open them up to all sorts of nefarious plots and plans.

Deceased

The character is technically dead—although presumably
still able to interact with the rest of the world in some way.
They might be a vampire, a ghost, a zombie or even a brain
floating in a jar.

Dependents

The character has young children, elderly relatives or
others who rely on them. They can’t just abandon these
people and must check on them and help care for them on
a regular basis.

Enemy

There’s someone out there who has sworn to defeat the
character. The enemy is of at least the same rank as the
character and is obsessed with bringing them down. This
tag can be taken multiple times, but it should be reserved
for truly obsessed foes.

Eternally Immortal

The character does not age and could theoretically live
forever. If the character is killed, they can be brought back
to life in the Activation Chamber found in the Exclusion,
an Eternal base located beneath the South Pole. To make
this happen, the Activation Chamber sacrifices the life of a
random human anywhere on Earth.

Restriction: For Eternals only.

Extreme Appearance

The character looks very different than the average person
(wherever they happen to be) and cannot easily hide their
identity. When this tag appears in origins in this chapter, it
may give other useful information, like whether an extreme
appearance is common.

Green Door

After being killed, the character can come back to
life by passing through the Green Door, a portal that
connects a part of the afterlife to Earth. This makes them
effectively immortal.

Restriction: For gamma mutates only.

Headquarters

The character has a base, cave or lair they can use to recover
from wounds, repair or store equipment, work on inventions
and so on. The location can be public or secret, and it can be
as humble as a toolshed or as elaborate as an underground
complex or a Manhattan skyscraper.

Heroic
The character acts heroically. They help people in need, and they
do their best not to kill—even with people who might deserve it.

Restriction: The character cannot also be Villainous.

Hounded

The character is a member of a group of people who are
persecuted for simply being themselves.

Hunted
The character is hunted by the law for crimes they have
supposedly (or actually) committed. If captured by the police,
they may be arrested, tried for their crimes and potentially
sent to jail.

Imageless
The character casts no reflection, and their image cannot be
captured by cameras.

Immunity
The character is immune to the usual effects of something.
This can be selected multiple times.

Inhuman Genes
The character has latent Inhuman genes that cause them to
develop super-powers when exposed to the Terrigen Mist.

Restriction: For Inhumans only.

Krakoan
As a mutant, the character is automatically a citizen of the
island-nation of Krakoa and can travel to and from there
freely. Also, if they are killed and the Five—a group of
powerful mutants—are able to work together, the character
can be resurrected into an identical new body with most of
their memories intact.

If killed in Otherworld, the character can still be
resurrected, but they will be changed in unpredictable ways.
Just how this might affect the character is up to the Narrator.

Restriction: For mutants only.
Lab Access

The character either owns or has access to a laboratory filled
with the technical equipment, supplies and tools they need

i'@ wpe <
ft hy Hiumbharta Ramae & Fdoar Noloada | 4
for their work. This can be anything from a well-stocked
high-school classroom to a forensics lab to an industrial site.

Linguist

The character is fluent in a language other than their native
tongue. This tag can be selected multiple times, once for
each language.

Lunar Transformation

On the three nights that the moon is at its fullest and while
the moon is above the horizon, the character must transform
into a werewolf and is ruled by their animal nature. They
cannot help but hunt and attack any people or creatures they
come across, no matter if they are friend or foe.

Restriction: For werewolves only.

Mahd Wy’ry

The character lives for so long that their accumulated
memories have the potential to drive them insane. The only
cure for this condition is to die and then be reborn witha
restoration of their mind from a clean backup. This happens
rarely, but the disease can progress quickly once it starts.

Restriction: For Eternals only.

Mentor

The character knows an older person they can ask for advice,
even when it comes to having super-powers. This tag can be
selected multiple times.

Mute
The character cannot speak. Unless otherwise specified, they
can use other means to communicate.

Mysterious

The character does not entirely understand how or why they
have powers. This can prove unsettling and perhaps even
dangerous, or they can just take it in stride.

Obligation

The character is responsible to certain people, places or
organizations who rely on them. This tag can be selected
multiple times, using many different categories. These
include family, school, society, sports, work and so on.

Poor
The character has little access to money and struggles to
make ends meet. This can cause them all sorts of problems.

Powerful

The character has access to the resources of their entire
community. In most cases, they must be careful about how
they use such resources so that they don't lose that access.

Public Identity

The character's real identity is known to the public. This can
make it easier for them to ask their friends and family—and
even strangers—for help. Unfortunately, it also makes it
easier for their enemies to find them and even to threaten
those same friends and family.

Radioactive
The character constantly emits low levels of some sort of
radiation. This can be picked up by a Geiger counter.

Rich

The character has access to plenty of money. If they want
something normally and legally available to people, they
can simply buy it.

Secret Identity

The character's real identity is a secret to the public, and they
must take precautions to maintain this status. This might
help keep the people they care about safe from their enemies,
but it can also cause strain in those same relationships.

Signature Weapon
The character is known for owning and using a specific type
of weapon, like Hawkeye’s bow or Elektra’s sai.

This tag can be taken more than once, but each time must
be with a different weapon.

Sorcerous
The character has dedicated themself to the study of
traditional magic, also known as sorcery.

Streetwise

The character knows how things are handled on the street,
who's in charge of various criminal enterprises and how to
avoid issues with them.

Supernatural
The character has powers that are magical or based on
something magical.

Villainous
The character is a villain, someone who cares little for the
rights of others, up to and including their right to live.

Restriction: The character cannot also be Heroic.

Vision Issues

The character has trouble seeing that can range from partial
to full blindness. This can also include color blindness,
astigmatisms and being nearsighted or farsighted.

Worshipped

The character is worshipped by others as a god.

X-Gene
The character has mutant genes that cause them to develop
super-powers.

Restriction: For mutants only.
Young

The character is a minor, under 18 years old. If possible, they
must report in to their parents or guardians on a regular basis.

«)

oN
SU

POWERS

POWERS ARE WHAT MAKE A SUPER HERO SUPER. THEY'RE
the amazing abilities that normal people can barely imagine.
Without them, you can have heroes, but you need them to
have super heroes.

This chapter features a list of powers in alphabetical
order. While they describe many of the most common kinds
of powers shown in Marvel comics, they don’t quite cover
everything. If you have an idea for a power you've seen in
a Marvel comic that isn’t shown here—or for one of your
own creation—discuss it with your Narrator.

Note that powers inherently break the rules. They're
exceptions to the normal state of things. If the regular rules
and the rules for a power contradict each other, follow the
rules for the power.

More official powers may show up in future expansions
of the Marvel Multiverse Role-Playing Game.

When you create your own super hero, the character's rank
tells you how many powers you can pick for them. For each
rank a hero has, they can pick up to four powers.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4, so he can pick up to
(4x4=) 16 powers.

Power Sets

Many powers come grouped in thematically related sets
called power sets. This includes things like Super-Strength,
Martial Arts, Spider-Powers, and so on. Those that aren't
part of a power set are called basic powers.

aN
67

Vw

You can select
powers from as many
different power sets
as you like. However,
if you use powers
from fewer sets than
the character’s rank,
you get a thematic
bonus. This is equal to
the character's rank
minus the number of
power sets they use.

NUMBER OF POWERS

Rank Powers

Example: Spider-Man
only uses basic powers and powers from the Spider-Powers set.
This gives him (4-1=) 3 extra powers. That means he can pick
up to 19 powers.

A character who wants to take a power they normally
wouldn't be able to pick because of their origin can do so
with the Surprising Power trait. However, they still have
to fulfill any other prerequisites to select the power.

Extra Power Picks

If you like, you don’t have to use all of a character's power
picks on powers. Instead, you can trade them in for traits
or even extra ability points on a one-for-one basis.

Example: Spider-Man only uses 17 powers. This means that he
can convert two of his power picks into ability points or traits.

Note that basic powers don't belong to a power set and so
don’t count toward the total number of power sets chosen.

zZnaamamaamaaaawaeaawaaawaaawaawaaawaawaawaaawaawaeaweawaeawavweawaweaweavwaweaweawawaewaeea

POW Ei

Power Explanations

When picking a character's powers, keep the character's
concept in mind. Some powers are going to fit naturally
with it, and others might feel jarring. It’s up to you to come
up with a rationale for why a character with a particular
origin can choose a specific power.

For example, many powers from the Spider-Powers set fit
well with characters who have the weird science origin. However,
acharacter with a high tech origin might have a pistol that fires
webbing. Or they might have a helmet that tingles to warn
them of danger, giving them the equivalent of Spider-Sense.

Adding Some Color

While there are hundreds of powers included in this book, it’s
impossible to cover every power that every Marvel character has
used in full depth, exploring every possibility for using it. One
of the ways that we work around this is to offer up some more
generic powers that can apply to a number of different characters.

For instance, there’s a power set called Melee Weapons.
This provides all sorts of ways to use common melee weapons
in the game, from Daredevil's billy club to Wolverine’s claws.
If you're making a character of your own, be sure to add some
color to the character’s powers. Come up with specifics about
what each power represents, and don’t be afraid to add in
fun things like your own sound effects.

Wolverine’s claws go snikt when he pops them from the back
of his hands. If your character has claws, are they retractable
like that, or are they always out? If they're retractable, do they
make a sound effect when they pop out? When they go back in?

Similarly, when Nightcrawler teleports, it goes bamf, and it
smells like sulfur. This is because he actually pops in and out of
a place called the Brimstone Dimension. If your character can
teleport, does it make a noise too? A puff of wind? A flash of light?

As another example, some people with Spider-Powers fire
their webbing from a device, which means that the power
is tied to the Tech Reliance trait. Others have that power
inherently, firing the webbing from their wrists. Does your
character have access to all of their powers inherently, or do
they rely on gadgets for some of them? If so, what do they
look and sound like? Do they require supplies or batteries?

You can make your character however you like, but adding
little colorful bits like this can help separate them from the
crowd. That makes them feel unique—more like your hero.

Special Training
Characters of nearly any origin can pick any basic powers
they like. Most characters can also choose powers from
any power set they like, although there are some notable
exceptions. These are listed in the descriptions of the origins.
However, characters who have only the Special Training
origin are a special case. They are restricted to picking powers
only from the following power sets:

> Martial Arts

> Melee Weapons
> Ranged Weapons
> Shield Bearer

> Tactics

They can also choose basic powers a regular human
could reasonably have. See the Basic powers list on page 80.

aN
6

Many powers are grouped together thematically into power
sets. In many power sets, a character must first have lesser
powers to be able to select bigger powers. These prerequisites
are listed in parentheses after the power names in the power
set lists on pages 74-78. Note that for numbered sequence
powers, like Shield 1-4, taking a power requires taking the one
before it in sequence, even if it's not stated in the parentheses.
The power sets are:

>
>
>

Elemental Control
Illusion

Magic

Chaotic
Cursed

¢ Sorcerous
Martial Arts
Melee Weapons

vvv

Omniversal Travel
¢ Dimensional

@ Multiversal
Time

Phasing
Plasticity
Power Control
Ranged Weapons
Resize

Shield Bearer
Spider-Powers
Super-Speed
Super-Strength
Tactics
Telekinesis
Telepathy
Teleportation

> Weather Control

vvvvvvvvvvvyvyv

Each of these are described in detail below.

Elemental Control
When a character selects an Elemental Control
we, power, they must select the type of element their
> = power uses, as shown in the list below. Most
» characters stick to a single type of element, but

this is not required.

Each type of element has its own special effect associated
with it that’s triggered by Fantastic successes on checks made
with that power. The special effects are as follows:

> Air: Target is knocked prone for one round.

> Earth: Target moves at half speed for one round.

> Electricity: Stuns target for one round.

> Energy: Blinds target for one round.
» Fire: Sets target ablaze.

Vw
Force: Target has trouble on all actions for one round.

Hellfire: Splits damage equally between
Health and Focus.

Ice: Paralyzes target for one round.
Iron: Pins target for one round.
Sound: Deafens target for one round.

vvvv vv

The character’s power produces or locates each of these
elements as necessary.

Force is an invisible but hard material, the sort of thing
a force-field is made from.

Hellfire is a demonic form of fire. Only characters with
the Cursed tag can use it.

The power to control iron is actually the power to control

magnetism—which requires a solid element (iron) to affect.

Energy, in this case, serves as a catchall term for all kinds
of energy. This can be any sort of powerful energy, from
Cyclops’ eye-beams to Dazzler’s displays to the energy that
Captain Marvel (Carol Danvers) fires.

We use the generic elemental terms in the rulebook for

clarity, but you don’t have to be bound by such restrictions.

When referring to these powers in the game or on your
character sheet, you can substitute in your chosen element
for the word Elemental. You can even change it to other words
that fit the character better. Just make sure that the Narrator
knows what you mean.

Example: Iceman calls his use of Elemental Form his Ice Form.

Cyclops has the power Elemental Blast. He could call this his
Energy Blast, although since he fires his blasts from his eyes, he
calls this his Optic Blast instead.

Illusion

When a character casts an illusion, the player
should describe the illusion in detail. What does
it look like? If it makes sound, what does it sound
like? If it can move, how does it move?

Most characters believe in the illusions they witness. If

they have a reason to, they can try to disbelieve an illusion.

Water: Surprises target until the end of the next round.

aN
9

This requires a Logic check made against the Ego defense of
the character who created the illusion. If the check succeeds,
the character sees through the illusion. If they communicate
this to others, those characters get an edge on any Logic check
to see through the illusion as well. On a Fantastic success on
any such Logic check, the illusion ends.

The Illusion power set also includes things like
invisibility and other powers that hamper or block the
senses. You can't disbelieve such things. However, you can
still attack things in the dark or things that are invisible—
as long as you have any indication that there’s something
there. Characters that attempt to do so have trouble on
their attack checks.

Invisible characters have an edge on Agility checks to
sneak past people, and enemies have trouble on Vigilance
checks to perceive them. It’s even harder to spot things that
are invisible but aren't moving. Characters must be actively
trying to do so to be able to make a Vigilance check.

Magic is a complex power set with all sorts of
wild powers in it. Players and Narrators should

to abuse than others. Remember that no matter
what the rules might say, all players should try to play in
the spirit of the game.

Magic powers generally rely on Ego for their checks, so
if you're building a character that focuses on this power set,
be sure to put some points into the Ego ability too.

There are four basic types of magic:

Chaos Magic: To use this, a character must have the Chaotic
tag. These powers arise from some kind of contact with the
dark lord Chthon, and they can be unpredictable. In times of
incredible emotional distress, they can be enough to change
the world. Such universe-altering powers aren't covered in this
book, though, as they should be as rare as they are powerful.

The Scarlet Witch is the best-known user of Chaos Magic,
although there are others who manage it as well.

6
Vw
Demonic Magic: To use this, a character must have the
Cursed tag. These powers arise from a relationship with
demons and other dark figures. Most users of Demonic Magic
are tormented by their powers and have complicated feelings
about them. The various Ghost Riders are good examples of
such characters.

Sorcery: To use this, a character must have the Sorcerous
tag. This means that they've spent time studying this sort
of magic and understand its underlying principles. Many of
the powers listed here are actually well-known and battle-
tested spells that many sorcerers wield.

Doctor Strange and Wong are some of the best-known
sorcerers around.

Ritual Magic: This sort of magic is not covered in this
book, as the topic is far too broad. It includes the kinds of
spells that take hours, if not days, to cast, and they often
involve the use of special ingredients and rare and powerful
tomes. Most characters would not encounter such things
on a daily basis—not even Doctor Strange as the Sorcerer
Supreme—but they can be the basis of important adventures.

Such tomes are more like powerful artifacts on their
own than simple spell books. A good example of this would
be the legendary Darkhold, an indestructible book in which
Chthon inscribed his works.

Most magic-based powers fall under Chaos Magic, Demonic
Magic or Sorcery. However, it’s possible for a character with
the Magic origin to pick other powers with the idea that they
are provided to the character by magic.

Martial Arts
The Martial Arts power set covers all sorts of
unarmed combat. There are plenty of different
disciplines that could be named here—kung fu,
karate, tae kwon do, jiu-jitsu and such—so the
powers are meant to be more about the results of various
moves rather than the actual techniques.

This is one of the power sets that anyone can use, including
those with the Special Training origin, so powers from it crop
up often. If you have a character with extra powers to pick,
this is an excellent place to improve their combat abilities
without warping their character concept by adding in powers
that don’t match up well.

Melee Weapons
The Melee Weapons power set covers different
ways to use all sorts of weapons employed in
hand-to-hand combat. Note that the weapons
themselves can affect the attacks they make, but
this is covered in Chapter 4. This power set is about how
those weapons get used.

When a character selects a Melee Weapons power, they
get a melee weapon to use with it. In addition, they must
select the type of weapon their power uses—either blunt
or sharp—as shown below. Most characters stick to a single
type of weapon, but feel free to mix and match.

Each type of weapon has its own special effect associated
with it that’s triggered by Fantastic successes on checks
made with that power:

> Blunt:
> Sharp:

Target is stunned for one round.
Target is bleeding.

In general, sharp weapons have blades, points or other
vicious tips or edges. Blunt weapons do not.

Again, this is a power set that is open to anyone, including
characters with the Special Training origin. Many heroes
don’t use weapons of any kind, but doing so can add a bit of
flair to the character and help distinguish them from others.

Imagine Wolverine without his claws. His weapons play
a big part in defining him as a character.

While a shield can be used as a blunt weapon, there’s a
whole power set—Shield Bearer—dedicated to that particular
bit of equipment. If you want your character to use a shield,
look there too.

Omniversal Travel

& 2] There are three different types of Omniversal

: 4 g all allow a character to move between different
2alieY dimensions, but the key difference comes down

If the character wants to move through space ina single
dimension, they should look to the Teleportation power

Dimensional: These powers allow the character to move
between dimensions that are attached to their current
the Negative Zone.

While it’s true that some fundamental dimensions connect
these dimensions with these powers, they return to their
own universe, not one of the others in the Multiverse. If
multiversal powers instead.

Multiversal: These powers permit the character to travel
65. These are usually universes that are closely aligned
with Earth-616. They might differ in details—even vitally
remains the same.

If the character wishes to move into different dimensions
dimensional powers instead.

Time: Traveling through time is technically a multiversal-
that looks like it but is set at a different time. Traveling into
the future moves the character into a possible future, and the
years into the future, for instance, allows for lots of points
of substantial divergence, while traveling ten seconds into

Players and Narrators should be extremely cautious with
all of these powers, but especially with time-travel powers.
intentioned. Without care, characters can find themselves
trapped in a time or place that differs fundamentally from

Characters are not allowed to time-travel to a previous
time ina battle, as doing so at such a crucial juncture would

At the Narrator’s discretion, characters that abuse
their time-travel powers can expect a visit from the Time

Travel incorporated into the power set. They
to which dimensions the character has access to.
set instead.
universe. This can include places like Limbo, Beyond and
to multiple universes, when a character travels to one of
they want to jump to a different universe, they should have
between different universes—from, say, Earth-616 to Earth-
important ones—but the way the universes work generally
attached to one of these universes, they should have
travel power, as it moves people from their universe to one
farther out that future is, the less certain it is. Traveling ten
the future usually does not.
They are ripe for abuse by both the unethical and the well-
the one they wished to be in.
transport them into an alternate universe instead.
Variance Authority, Kang the Conqueror or any number of

«)

|

, 44 eee

POV Fk

) es as a

other powerful time-travelers who don't appreciate someone
mucking around with the timeline. Those who fail to mend
their ways can expect such visits to be anything but friendly.

Phasing
di Phasing powers are for characters that can walk
w, through things like a ghost. Kate Pryde is the

ae archetypal example of this. However, it also

7 works for the Vision when he lowers his body’s
density. When he increases his density, that’s the equivalent
of taking levels of Sturdy instead.

You can use phasing powers to replicate other sorts of
intangibility. They would work well for ghosts, for instance.

Plasticity
While the Plasticity power set seems tailor-made
for stretchy characters like Mister Fantastic,
it also works for characters of any type who
Na are able to contort, stretch or reshape their
forms. This includes characters like Ms. Marvel (Kamala
Khan) and Groot.

Many characters with Plasticity powers also take
the Disguise power—a basic power—as their flexibility
allows them to alter their finer features as well as
their bodies.

1 i Nae
‘1/2 ee oe ee ee ee

Power Control
The Power Control power set is essentially
a collection of meta-powers: powers that
affect other powers. Characters that rely
on this power set work best with a decent-
sized team of other super-powered characters whose
powers they can amplify or borrow.
For a character to be able to use or affect an item
that belongs to someone else (a power, ability, trait
and so on), they have to first know about the item. If
they've seen it in action, that’s enough. They don't
need to have seen it in person, though. Watching a
video of the target who has the original item using
it—or even hearing or reading about it—works too.
If a particular power to be duplicated requires a
higher rank than the character's rank, the character
must make a Challenging Ego check to be able to
use it. They have trouble for every rank they would
need to meet the rank requirement. For example,
if they are Rank 2 and wish to copy a power with
a Rank 4 prerequisite, they have double trouble.
This power set can be tricky for players. The
character can sometimes feel like they're not
terribly unique, as they must rely on access to
other characters. They're great for building
redundancy into a team, though, and for amping
up powers for climactic moments.

g

~

Ranged Weapons
The Ranged Weapons power set
covers all sorts of different things
jm that characters can do with ranged
4 weapons. This applies to firearms,
obviously, but also to archery, thrown knives
and other means of ranged attacks. When using

this power set, the character
should try to choose powers
that fit well with their
chosen weaponry, whatever
it might happen to be.

Those who select any

power from this set get at
least one ranged weapon
to use with it. They can
focus on using one kind of
ranged weapon or switch it
up as they like.

This is a power set that
anyone can use, including
those with the Special
Training origin. Note that
few Marvel heroes use lethal
ranged weapons, as heroes
abhor killing. However, many
villains make of use this
power set, particularly low-
rank hirelings.

The Resize power
set allows charac-
ters to grow and
shrink dramati-
cally at will. The most common
way for this to happen in the
Marvel Multiverse is by use of
Pym Particles, named after the
scientist who discovered and
developed them: Hank Pym
(Ant-Man, Goliath, Yellowjacket
and so on). When using Pym
Particles to shrink, a character's
extra mass is displaced into a
pocket dimension. Because
of this, the character retains
many of the same qualities they
have at their full size, like their
strength and durability.

RESIZE EFFECTS

Size
Microscopic

Power
Shrink 4

Pym Particles are usually stored and dispensed to the
character via a mask or kit, which gives them the Tech
Reliance trait. However, after repeated exposure to Pym
Particles the bodies of some characters begin to produce
them spontaneously, removing that trait. When creating
a character, you can pick which way you'd like to go, but
higher-rank characters are more likely to go without the
Tech Reliance trait than lower-rank ones.

The Resize Effects table shows which powers it takes
to achieve various sizes. It also shows the modifier to the
character's Melee and Agility defenses at that size, the
damage multiplier the character gets to add to their Melee
attacks at that size, and the effect their size has on many
other things.

The defense modifier can also be applied to other checks
where size makes a difference, like someone trying to spot the
character while they’re sneaking or hiding. If the character
is tiny size, for example, they add the +3 defense modifier to
their Agility defense when people try to spot them.

Damage multiplier bonuses from size do not stack
with other damage multiplier bonuses. Apply the biggest
modifier instead.

For simplicity’s sake, don’t worry about resized characters’
relative sizes, like a gigantic-size character versus a
miniature-size character. Just apply their regular defense
modifiers and damage multipliers as listed.

Example: Ant-Man shrinks from average size to miniature size,
making him about as tall as a miniature on a gaming table. He
adds +4 to his Melee and Agility defenses.

Apply a character’s size multiplier to their reach, the
number of spaces they occupy, their speed and their throwing
ranges (as shown on the Objects & Sizes table at the end of
Chapter 4). A character that is little-size or smaller doesn’t
occupy a full space. Because of that, they can share a space
with other creatures. In fact, if they want to make a close
attack, they must be in the same space with their target, as
they cannot reach outside of it.

The number of spaces a character occupies is the length
in spaces on each side of the cube they occupy. A huge-size
character, for instance, occupies a cube that is 5 spaces ona
side. Characters can come in different proportions, of course,
and the Narrator should make adjustments for ones that are
longer, taller and so on.

Size
Multiplier

Defense
Modifier

Damage
Multiplier

¥, inch

Miniature
Tiny

Shrink 3
Shrink 2

linch
4 inches

Shrink 1
Grow1

Little
Huge

1.5 feet

24 feet

Grow 2
Grow 3

Gigantic
Titanic

100 feet
400 feet

Grow4 Gargantuan

1,600 feet

zZnaamamaamaaaawaeaawaaawaaawaawaaawaawaawaaawaawaeaweawaeawavweawaweaweavwaweaweawawaewaeea

POV

Example: Ant-Man changes to little size. His reach is now (1x%,
rounded down =) 0 spaces, which means he can only reach things
in the same space as him. He normally occupies 1 space, so that’s
down to 0 as well.

His Run Speed is normally 5, but it’s now (5x4, rounded down =)
1 space. His range for throwing something three or more steps
smaller than him is normally 20, but now it’s (20x%4=) 5 spaces.

Example: Giant-Man grows to gigantic size. His reach is now
(1x20=) 20 spaces, and he occupies a cube that’s 20 spaces ona

side as well.
His Run Speed is normally 5, but it’s now (5x20=) 100 spaces.
He picks up and throws an airliner, which is the same size as him.
For an average-size person throwing something their own size,
the range is 5 spaces. For Giant-Man throwing that airliner, it’s
(5x20=) 100 spaces.
Shield Bearer
This is a power set that anyone can use, including
characters with the Special Training origin.
However, this isn’t too common, as the Shield
Bearer power set is clearly meant for Captain
America—in almost all of the character's different varieties.
Other characters have used similar shields, though, ranging
from U.S.Agent to Taskmaster.

Those who select any power from this set get a shield to
use with it. When selecting this power set, take some time
to describe the shield the character uses. What shape is it?
What color or colors? Does it have a design or some kind of
symbol on it? If so, what do those things mean?

The shield should be iconic, something that others can
use to identify the character immediately. However, it’s
possible that the character isn’t entirely aware of all of the
shield’s symbolism—which a crafty Narrator might be able
to make use of later.

Spider-Powers
The Spider-Powers power set is meant for
characters like Spider-Man (in all his variations)
and related spider-type characters. If the character
would likely be part of the next Spider-Verse event,
then they should probably have some of these powers.

Note that few characters have all of the powers in this
set. There are lots of them, and that gives room for plenty
of variation even among spiderlike characters.

Webbing appears as a part of many of these powers.
Breaking free from webbing requires a Melee check
(target number 20). Characters paralyzed by webbing can
try to break it as a reaction right after being paralyzed by
it—assuming they still have a reaction left that round.

Super-Speed

The Super-Speed power set is meant for speedsters
like Quicksilver, but other characters can make
use of it too. Players and Narrators should take
care with this power set, as it can easily become
overpowered. A more realistic version of many of the
powers might allow such characters to finish battles before
they started.

Super-Strength

Super-strength is a fairly common kind of power
among super heroes. That’s why the Mighty
powers—which represent raw strength—aren't
part of this power set but are instead basic
powers. The Super-Strength power set is more about the
kinds of things that characters can pull off when they have
amazing strength, so if you want your character to be able
to manage these things, be sure to line up some of those
Mighty powers too.

Tactics
M The Tactics power set is less about super-powers
and more about having the ability to lead people
who have such powers. Characters that focus on
this power set are best off leading a decent-sized
team of super heroes, as that’s when their leadership skills
can really shine. They might not be the ones who land the
winning blows, but they are often the ones who help set it up.
This is a power set that any character can have, even
those with the Special Training origin. If you want such a
character to shine, picking a few of these powers can help
make them feel like an integral part of the team.

Telekinesis

Telekinesis is one of the two power sets that relies

™ on Logic. The other is Telepathy, just below. With
| it, the character uses the power of their mind to

physically affect things in the world.

This is related—although not identical—to how characters
manipulate things with Elemental Control. That is an effort
of will (Ego), though, and telekinesis (sometimes abbreviated
as TK) is an effort of the mind (Logic).

Telepathy

Telepathy is one of the two power sets that relies
on Logic. The other is Telekinesis, right above.
With it, the character uses their mind to affect
the minds of those around them. They can read
thoughts, wipe memories and more.

To see through a telepathic mirage of any kind requires a
Logic check made against the Logic defense of the character
who created the mirage. If the check succeeds, the character
sees through the mirage. If they communicate this to others
affected by the mirage, those characters get an edge on any
Logic check to see through the mirage as well. On a Fantastic
success on any such Logic check, the mirage ends.

While all heroes need to pay attention to acting ethically,
that’s even more important with a character who uses
Telepathy. It’s far too easy to use it to do awful and invasive
things, even for admirable ends.

r_™
ISS)

Teleportation
Whereas Omniversal Travel moves characters
between universes, dimensions and even time,
Teleportation moves them from place to place
instead. This can gain the character quick entry
to places that are normally shut off to others, so their players
must take care with them.

Conversely, Narrators must take teleportation into account
when designing encounters. When a character can simply

@)
teleport past physical fortifications, there should ‘
be other means to keep them from stampeding
wherever they wish. The main deterrent, of course,
is that characters that teleport blindly into places run the
risk of teleporting into solid matter, which can be painful
and potentially fatal.

Weather Control

i Many of the power sets are directly useful in
combat, but that’s not generally so with Weather
Control. While it can help with such things, this
power set is more about establishing credentials

and affecting things on a larger scale than a single skirmish.

This power set requires Ego to manipulate things, so be

sure to focus on that with the character's abilities as well.

Keep in mind also that Weather Control matches up well

with Elemental Control powers that affect air and lightning.

| Powers that don't have a listed power set are
called basic powers. These don’t count against
the number of power sets a character can pick
from. Any character with powers can select and
use them freely.

If you're having a hard time coming up with a character of
your own, remember that this book is packed with dozens of
ready-to-use character profiles too. You can take them and
play those characters exactly as they are, or you can riff on
them and create your own variant.

Variants of existing characters don’t even have to
change their abilities, labels or powers at all. You can alter
them in ways that affect their histories and identities
rather than their statistics. Maybe they're from a different
part of the world or of a different gender. Maybe they're
younger or older. Maybe they're guilty of some things or
innocent of others.

In any case, each and every one of the profiles in this
book can serve as an example of how you could create your
own character. Don’t worry that your new hero doesn't come
with over 80 years of history behind them or that they
haven't appeared in comics, films or video games. They're
your character—your own creation—and that makes them
more important in your game than anyone else.

aN
75
VW

zZnaamamaamaaaawaeaawaaawaaawaawaaawaawaawaaawaawaeaweawaeawavweawaweaweavwaweaweawawaewaeea

VM L Add,

ELEMENTAL CONTROL Tw

Mlldtltttld ssbb ddsdisdidéce

VLILLILLLLLL LLU bbb be
Elemental Burst
Elemental Prison (Elemental Protection 1)
Elemental Reinforcement (Elemental Protection 1)

LLL hb bbb bsbisdsscciidde

ILLUSION ZZ

LLL UML hb

LLMs

Illumination

Invisibility (Rank 2)

Mirror Images (Animated Illusion, Rank 3)
Silence Area (Illumination, Rank 2)
Silence Self (Illumination, Rank 2)

Static Illusion (Illumination)

M A G i C (N 0 s E 1) VLMMMLLMLL LUN

shhh bbbbbdddddddcddddddddddrddrrddddddddddddddddddsdddddd

Astral Form (Rank 2)
Brain Drain (Rank 2)
Exorcism (Rank 4)

Leech Life (Rank 2)

Sense Supernatural

UML,

MAGIC (CHAOS SET) sions

VLMMLL ULL CZ shh bbbbsssdiddciddddceda

Hex Bolt (Chaotic, Rank 2)

N
N
N
N
N
N
N
Ny
N
N
N
N
N
N

Jinx (Chaotic, Rank 2)

Powerful Hex (Chaotic, Rank 2)

Probability-Manipulation Hex (Chaotic, Rank 3)

Protection Hex (Chaotic, Rank 3)

MAGIC (DEMONIC SET) et ee

Lbs sash bsssssdisddisdddcddddddcdddccddddddccdddccdddéa VILLA hdl ddd

Hellfire Chains (Cursed, Rank 2)

Penance Stare (Cursed)
Possess Vehicle (Cursed, Rank 3,
Possession (Cursed, Rank 5)

Sense Sins (Cursed)

MAGIC (SORCERY SET) eof

Utd d ZZ, ZZ CZ LLL

Bolts of Balthakk (Sorcerous, Rank 2,

—

Crimson Bands of Cyttorak (Sorcerous, Rank 3)
Dispel Spell (Sorcerous, Rank 4)

Flames of the Faltine (Sorcerous, Rank 2)

N
N
NS
N
N
X
N
N
NN
N
N
NN
N
N
X

Icy Tendrils of Ikthalon (Sorcerous, Rank 2)
Images of Ikonn (Sorcerous, Rank 2)

Mists of Morpheus (Sorcerous, Rank 3)

Mists of Munnopor (Sorcerous, Rank 2)
Shield of the Seraphim (Sorcerous, Rank 3)
Summon Portal (Sorcerous, Rank 4)
Vapors of Valtorr (Sorcerous, Rank 3)

Winds of Watoomb (Sorcerous, Rank 2)

«)
MARTIAL ARTS sss

bbb bbb bdsddiddddcdddcddddddddddddddddddrdddrddcrddddddddddddddddddsdddséc

Always Ready (Do This All Day, Rank 3)

Attack Stance

Banging Heads

Brace for Impact (Do This All Day, Rank 2)

Chain Strikes (Fast Strikes, Rank 2)

Counterstrike Technique (Attack Stance, Rank 2)

Crushing Grip (Rank 2)

Defense Stance

Do This All Day (Rank 2)

Fast Strikes

Flying Double Kick (Leg Sweep, Rank 3)

Focused Strike (Chain Strikes, Rank 3)

Grappling Technique (Rank 2)

Leaping Leglock (Flying Double Kick, Crushing Grip, Rank 4)
Leg Sweep (Fast Strikes, Rank 2)

Regain Focus (Unflappable Poise, Untouchable Position, Rank 4)
Reverse-Momentum Throw (Defense Stance, Rank 2)

Spin & Throw (Grappling Technique, Rank 2)

Unflappable Poise (Defense Stance, Rank 3)

Untouchable Position (Counterstrike Technique, Rank 3)

MELEE WEAPONS

LLL ih hsb bbbddisisddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddda

Exploit (Vicious Attack, Rank 2)

Fast Attacks

Focused Fury (Exploit, Rank 3)

Furious Attacks (Whirling Frenzy, Rank 3)

Hit & Run

Riposte

Unstoppable Assault (Furious Attacks, Focused Fury, Rank 4)

Vicious Attack

Whirling Frenzy (Fast Attacks, Rank 2)

OMNIVERSAL TRAVEL (DIMENSIONAL)

bb bsbdssdisddddddddddddddddddddddrddddddddddddddrddddddddrddrdddddddddddsddsdddddddséde

Dimensional Portal (Dimensional Travel Together, Rank 4)
Dimensional Travel (Rank 3)
Dimensional Travel Other (Dimensional Travel, Rank 4)

Dimensional Travel Together (Dimensional Travel, Rank 3)

OMNIVERSAL TRAVEL (MULTIVERSAL)

LLL bbb sgdsdidddddcdddddddddid

bss sbdddddddddid

Multiversal Portal (Multiversal Travel Together, Rank 4)
Multiversal Travel (Rank 3)
Multiversal Travel Other (Multiversal Travel, Rank 4)

Multiversal Travel Together (Multiversal Travel, Rank 3)

OMNIVERSAL TRAVEL (TIME )

LM Mbddidisssddddddddddddddddddddcddcdrddddddrrrdddrdddddcdddddddddddddddcddddddddddcdddddd

Time Travel Other (Time Travel, Rank 4)
Time Travel Together (Time Travel, Rank 3)

OL sh hs bbsddddddddddcddddddddddddddrddddddsdddddddsddddéc

Rubberneck (Flexible Bones 1, Extended Reach 1)

Slip Free

Stilt Steps (Extended Reach 1, Rank 2)

VLMMMLUAL LL

Wd,

ll,

lll

Wd

PHASING RANGED WEAPONS

Disrupt Electronics (Phase Self, Rank 2) Covering Fire (Return Fire, Rank 3)
Disrupt Nerves (Phase Self, Rank 2) Dance of Death (Slow-Motion Shoot-Dodge, Rank 3)

Quick Phase (Phase Self, Rank 2) ~ Return Fire (Suppressive Fire, Rank 2)

Slow-Motion Shoot-Dodge
(Slow-Motion Dodge, Weapons Blazing, Rank 3)

POWER CONTROL Snap Shooting
Boost Powers (Bump Power, Rank 4) Sniping (Rank 2)
Bump Power (Rank 2) Stopping Power (Double Tap, Rank 2)
Clone Moves (Rank 2) Suppressive Fire
Clone Powers (Copy Power, Rank 4) Weapons Blazing (Snap Shooting)
Copy Ability
Copy Power (Rank 2)
RESIZE
Copy Trait
Grow 1-4

Steal Powers

(Clone Powers, Shut Down Powers, Rank 4) Microdimensional Travel (Shrink 4, Rank 4)
Swipe Power ; Resize Object (Grow 2/Shrink 2, Rank 3)
(Copy Power, Dampen Power, Rank 3)

Resize Other (Grow 2/Shrink 2, Rank 3)

Shrinking Dodge (Shrink 1, Rank 2)

SHIELD BEARER

Lbs bddsdséddddddddddddddddddddrdcddddrdddrdddrdddrddrdddddddddddddddddddrddddddddddde

Brace for Impact (Do This All Day, Rank 2)

Do This All Day (Rank 2)

Hurled Shield Bash (Shield Bash, Rank 2)

Hurled Shield Block (Shield 1, Rank 2)

Hurled Shield Deflection (Shield Deflection, Rank 2)
Immovable

Rico-Shield (Hurled Shield Bash, Rank 3)

Shield 1-4 (Ranks vary)

Shield Bash

Shield Deflection

Shield Wall (Brace for Impact, Rank 3)

SPIDER-POWERS

LLL ih bb bid bbdddddddddddddddidddddddrddddddddddddddddddddddddadddddddadddda

Webgrabbing
(Webcasting, Rank 2)

Webtrapping
(Webgrabbing, Rank 3)

SUPER-SPEED

DLL Mbdddbgdiddddddddddddcrddddddrdcrdddddddddeddddddedddddcrdcddddddddddddddddddddddddcdddde

Speed Swim (Rank 2)

SUPER-STRENGTH

LL bbb bisbsicdddddddddddddddddddddrddddddddrddrddrddddrdddddddrdddddddddddrddddddddddrdddcdddddds

Banging Heads
Clobber
Crushing Grip (Rank 2)
Ground-Shaking Stomp (Smash, Rank 3
Immovable
ump 1-3 (Ranks vary)
Quick Toss (Crushing Grip, Mighty 1, Rank 3)
Smash (Clobber, Rank 2)

Unrelenting Smash
(Ground-Shaking Stomp, Mighty 2, Rank 4)

TACTICS

Ld bbb bddddddcdddcrdddrrccccaddedddddcddedccadddddceaddeadddddddddddda

Advance Keep Moving

(Rally on Me, Scatter, Rank 4)

On Your Feet
(Keep Moving, Rank 2)

Operations Center (Combat
Support, Focus Fire, Rank 4)
Rally on Me

(On Your Feet, Rank 3)

Scatter (Hit the Dirt, Rank 3)

Battle Plan
(Inspiration, Rank 2)

Change of Plans
(Inspiration, Rank 2)

Combat Support
(Change of Plans, Rank 3)

Focus Fire
(Battle Plan, Rank 3)

Hit the Dirt
(Keep Moving, Rank 2)

TELEKINESIS

OLLI

Group Levitation (Levitation, Rank 2)

Levitation

Telekinetic Attack (Telekinetic Manipulation, Rank 2)
Telekinetic Barrier (Telekinetic Grab, Rank 2)

Telekinetic Crush (Telekinetic Grab, Rank 3)

Telekinetic Grab (Telekinetic Manipulation, Rank 2)
Telekinetic Manipulation

Telekinetic Protection 1-4 (Telekinetic Barrier, Ranks vary)
Telekinetic Reinforcement (Telekinetic Protection 1
Telekinetic Sphere (Telekinetic Protection 1)

Telekinetic Toss (Telekinetic Grab, Rank 3)

zZnaamamaamaaaawaeaawaaawaaawaawaaawaawaawaaawaawaeaweawaeawavweawaweaweavwaweaweawawaewaeea

TELEPATHY TELEPORTATION

ssbb sdiséddddddddddddddsdddrdddddddddddddddddddddddrddddddddddrddddddcrddddddrdddsdddsddda shh ssbb bdddiddiddddddddddddrdddrdddddddddddrrddddddrddddddddddcrdddrdddddddddddddddddddddde

Animal Communication Blink Barrage (Blink, Rank 2)
Blink Defense (Blink, Rank 3)

Astral Form (Rank 2)

>
lz
3
(=
wo
fe}
B
Qa

Cloak (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

Domination (Orders, Rank 5) Teleport Together (Teleport 1, Rank 3)

Borrow Senses (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

Cloak Group (Cloak, Rank 3)

Command (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

Edit Memory (Memory Blip, Rank 4) Teleportal (Teleport 1, Rank 4)

ESP

Fool (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

WEATHER CONTROL

LLL bbb bdedbiddddddddcdddddddrddrdcdcddddddddddddddsddddddddddddda

Grand Fool (Fool, Rank 3) GantrclE
‘ontrol Fog

Grand Mirage (Mirage, Rank 4)
Control Weather 1-4 (Ranks vary)

Inf tion Upload (Telepathic Link, Rank 2,
nformation Upload (Telepathic Link, Rank 2) Thunder

Machine Telepathy Weather Chill
ather Chi

Memory Blip (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

Weather Warm
Mental Punch

Mental Shelter (Uncanny 1, Rank 3)

BASIC POWERS

Mind Interrogation (Mind Reading, Rank 2) "se crceddddeedeceeeeeececeeceeeeeecceceeceeeecdedeedeceeeededeedeededddeded

Accuracy 1-4 (Ranks vary)* Heightened Senses 1-2

Mind Reading (Telepathic Link)
Additional Limbs

Iconic Weapon*

[Grand Mirage (Mirage, Rank 4)
{information Upload (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)
[Machine Telepathy]

[Memory Blip (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)
[Mental Punch)

[Mental Shelter (Uncanny 1, Rank 3)
[Mind Interrogation (Mind Reading, Rank 2)
[Mind Reading (Telepathic Link)

Mirage (Telepathic Link, Rank 3,

Anger (Mighty 3, Rank 4) Inspiration*
Orders (Command, Rank 4) 2 eee E

Brawling* Integrity*

Telepathic Blast (Telepathic Link, Rank 2,

—

Brilliance 1-4 (Ranks vary)* Mighty 1-4 (Ranks vary)*

Telepathic Link

Combat Trickery (Rank 2)* Reinforced Skeleton

Telepathic Network (Telepathic Link, Rank 2)

a!) ging Discipline 1-4 (Ranks vary)* Shape-Shift (Disguise, Rank 3)
Telepathic Possession (Orders, Rank 5) S 2 = - - ~

PF)

Disguise* Slow-Motion Dodge*

Energy Absorption (Rank 4) Sturdy 1-4 (Ranks vary)*

Environmental Protection Uncanny 1-4 (Ranks vary)*

Evasion* Wisdom

Flight 1-2 (Ranks vary) Wisecracker

Group Flight (Flight 1, Rank 2)

Healing Factor

*These powers can be used by characters with the Special Training origin.
For powers with numbers after them, they can have them up to 2.

“0

vw

Each power description features a number of elements.
They include:

> Power Set: The power set the power belongs to. If

it’s a basic power, it says "None" here.

> Prerequisites: A list of any powers, traits, rank or
anything else (beyond the power set) the character

must have to use this power.

Action: The kind of action the character can spend
to use this power: standard, movement or reaction.

Trigger: If this power uses a reaction, this describes
what could trigger the reaction.

Duration: How long the power lasts.

>
>
>
> Range: If there's a range to the power, it’s

listed here.
> Cost: If there’s a cost to the power (often in Focus),
it’s listed here.

> Effect: What the power does.

If an element is not necessary, it usually does not appear.

Numbered Powers

Some powers are followed by a number, like Mighty 1. That’s
because you can upgrade that power to Mighty 2, Mighty
3 and soon.

Higher-numbered powers generally replace their lower-
numbered versions entirely. Their effects do not stack. If
there is a Focus cost associated with a numbered power,
though, a character can voluntarily use a lower-numbered
version of their power with that cost instead of their full
version of the power.

Power Durations
Power durations come in five standard types:

>

Permanent: The power is always active and costs
no Focus to use.

>

Instant: The power requires an action to use, and
the effect takes place instantly.

One round: The power requires an action to use,
and the effect lasts until the start of the character's
next turn (or the end of the next round at the latest).

Concentration: The power requires an action
to use, and the effect lasts (with no action cost)
until the character's concentration is broken or
willingly ended.

Breaking Concentration

Acharacter can concentrate on one power at a time for every
rank they have. These must be separate powers. You cannot
concentrate on the same power more than once.

Example: The Invisible Woman is Rank 4, so she can concentrate
on up to four powers that require concentration at a time.

A character can voluntarily end concentration at any
time, without using an action.
Things that can break a character’s concentration include:

> Becoming unconscious.

» Becoming demoralized.
> Being stunned, knocked back or knocked prone.
> Being blinded, if the power requires line of sight.

» Being deafened, if the power requires
hearing a target.

> Being paralyzed, if the power requires a Melee or
Agility check.

Spending Focus

Some powers require or permit a character to spend Focus.
A character cannot spend more Focus at once than five
times their rank.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4. He can spend up to (4 x 5=) 20
Focus at once.

Additionally, a character cannot voluntarily spend
so much Focus that doing so would reduce them to less
than 1 Focus.

Stacking Effects

Powers and other effects that increase or reduce damage
do not stack. In other words, they do not add their effects
to each other. Instead, the strongest one has an effect while
the others function as backups.

The same goes for any power-based adjustments made to
the speed of any of a character's movement modes. These do
not stack. When calculating the new speed for a particular
movement mode, use the character’s regular speed to
calculate any power-based increases separately and then
use the highest of those results.

Example: Wolverine has the Reinforced Skeleton power, which
reduces the damage multiplier for attacks against his Health by
1. He steps into a suit of Iron Man armor, which has the Sturdy
2 power—which reduces the damage multiplier by 2. Only the
Sturdy 2 has an effect. If the armor is destroyed, Wolverine still
has his Reinforced Skeleton, which then takes effect.

POWER DESCRIPTIONS

Accuracy 1
The character is an ace with ranged attacks.

Power Set: None

Prerequisites: None

Duration: Permanent

Effect: The character adds +1 to their Agility damage
multiplier, and they gain a +1 bonus to Agility checks
other than attacks.

Accuracy 2
The character is a sharpshooter.

Power Set: None

Prerequisites: Accuracy 1, Rank 2

Duration: Permanent

Effect: The character adds +2 to their Agility damage
multiplier, and they gain a +2 bonus to Agility checks
other than attacks.

«)

