“
J

CREATING A CHARACTER

WHILE IT CAN BE AMAZING FUN TO PLAY WITH ESTABLISHED
Marvel characters, many players like to create original
characters of their own who can fit into the Marvel
Multiverse. Even Narrators can join in the fun by coming
up with original villains and other characters for the heroes
to interact with and defeat.

The first time you create a character, the process can
be a little intimidating, but after you've done it a couple of
times, it becomes smoother and easier. Just remember that
the idea is to have fun with it. Let your creativity flow, and
don't be afraid to come up with the wildest characters you
want. If one doesn’t work out, you can always make more.

Before you start figuring out a character's abilities, powers
and other statistics, you should think a bit about who the
character is. That’s what sets them apart from others and
breathes life into them, making them more than a simple
collection of numbers and rules.

It’s often easiest to start out with a high concept: a one-
sentence description of the character that tells you what’s
most special about them. This can focus on their personal
history, the origin of their powers, the kinds of powers they
have or all of the above.

For instance, for Spider-Man (Peter Parker), the high
concept might read like this:

Bitten by a radioactive spider, which gave him spider-related
powers, orphaned and bullied high-school student Peter Parker
strives to help others out of a sense of great responsibility.

“Ss
Ne

That single sentence tells you most of what you need
to know about Peter Parker, and you can flesh out the
details from there.

It’s okay if your high concept isn’t particularly sharp
or polished at first. Go ahead and get started making the
character anyhow. As you dive deeper into that process,
the character should become more in focus, and you can
go back and revise the high concept to fit them better
if you'd like.

Part of a Team

If your hero is going to be part of a team, talk with the
Narrator and the other players to think a bit about how
that character might help round out the team. For instance,
a team that’s filled with big bruisers who can punch out
tanks might be great at brawling but could fall short
in other areas.

If that’s the kind of game you and your friends want
to play, go for it. Do whatever you like at your own table.

If you want your team to be ready for anything, though,
consider trying to fill out a better-balanced team instead.
Just talk with your fellow players about who wants to play
what kinds of characters and then try to spread out among
those roles as best you can.

It’s okay, though, if you have some gaps in your team’s
overall abilities or if the team focuses on certain types of
heroes, Your team is what you make of it, and your Narrator
can usually adjust to that by coming up with adventures
that fit your team well.

Here are the five simple steps to create a Marvel Multiverse
Role-Playing Game character all your own.

1.
2.
3.
4,
5.

Determine rank.

Pick ability scores.

Pick backstory elements.
Pick powers.

Calculate other scores.

You don’t have to do these things in this exact order. Feel
free to jump around to whatever sections you like. Just make
sure you cover all the steps at some point.

If you're creating a character for a game you're going to play
as part of a team of super heroes, you should chat with the
other players—especially the Narrator—before you begin.

If you're just coming up with a character for your own
amusement or practice and don’t intend to play them ina
game, that’s wonderful. Doing that can be all sorts of fun
on its own. But if you want to be able to play the character
in a particular game, you can head off many conflicts by
making sure that the character is likely to fit well with the
rest of the team.

Rank Caps

The first thing to consider is what kind of game the character
is going to be playing in. Will the team’s members haunt the
rooftops and alleys of Hell's Kitchen? Will they soar through
the galaxy and strive to prevent a galactic war? Or will they
do something else entirely? There's plenty of fertile ground
for all sorts of adventures in between.

The kind of game the character will be in can help
determine the range of ranks you want to play with the
character. That includes the character's starting rank and
their rank cap.

Most super heroes don’t start out as young farmers who
level their way up through countless years of epic adventures

to lead nations—with the notable exception of Colossus.

Instead, they have an origin story—during which they
figure out who they are and how their powers work—and
they usually don’t add any new powers from there. They just
become better at using the powers they have.

Asuper hero’s continuing adventures don’t spring froma
need to accumulate more power. Instead, those adventures
arise from the hero's sense of duty to do what they can to
help the people around them and possibly even to make the
world a better place.

In game terms, a super hero’s origin story often starts
out with them at Rank 1. From there, they can rise through
the ranks until they hit the peak of their powers. That’s
called their rank cap. They spend most of their career as a
hero at that cap.

When creating a hero, it’s often best to start out with the
rank cap in mind. For instance, if you want your hero to have

adventures like Spider-Man, you should set a rank cap of 4.

If you'd rather have Captain Marvel-type adventures, the
rank cap should be 6 instead.

If your group doesn’t want any preset limits and just
wants to see where the game takes them, that’s fine. The
default rank cap is at 6, which is the upper limit.

Zmaeamamaamawaamawaawawaaaaaawawaawaawaawawaweeweeea 2 ae

Starting Rank
Once you've set the character's rank cap, you can decide at
what rank you want the character to start. Some players like
to just start at their rank cap and play a hero who's already
at their peak. Others prefer to start from scratch—at Rank
1—and work their way up to that point. This is the classic
way to develop a hero from an average person to a legend.

It’s perfectly fine to skip over a number of lower ranks,
though, and start off a bit shy of the character's rank cap.
Many players like to start a couple of ranks lower than where
they plan to wind up, which gives them a strong starting
point but also plenty of room to develop and grow. If you're
shooting for Rank 4, for instance, you could start play at
Rank 2 and work your way up.

Look to the end of this chapter for more details on rising
through the ranks.

The next step is to determine your character’s ability scores.
Remember, their first initials spell MARVEL: Melee, Agility,
Resilience, Vigilance, Ego and Logic.

The average score for any ability is 0. Standard human-
level abilities range from -3 to +3, but your character's rank,
traits and powers can lift those higher.

Selecting Ability Scores

When creating a character from scratch, you determine a
character's ability scores by allocating points among the six
abilities. The number of points you have available to allocate
to your ability scores is determined by the character's rank,
as shown on the Ability Score Points table.

You can spend the points however you like. In addition,
if you lower a score below 0, you can use those points to
increase other scores. For instance, lowering a character’s
Ego to -2 would give you 2 points to use on other scores—
although it leaves the character particularly weak and
vulnerable in that area. You cannot voluntarily lower any
score below -3.

The default cap for any score is 3 plus the character's rank.
For regular folks who are Rank 1, that means the standard
cap is 4. For someone like Captain Marvel, who is Rank 6, it’s 9.

ABILITY SCORE POINTS
Ability Points

Rank Default Ability Cap

Ability Defense

To figure a character's defense for each ability, just add 10 to
the ability score. When they defend with that ability, that’s
the target number for the attacker.

«)
Example: Spider-Man has an Agility score of 7. That makes his
Agility defense (7+10=) 17. Someone attacking him in close combat
would need to get a 17 or better to hit him.

However, Spider-Man also has the Spider-Sense power, which
adds +2 to his Agility defense, so his actual Agility defense
is (17+2=) 19.

BACKSTORY

A character’s backstory involves their origin and their
occupation. Each of these gives the character a package of
related labels—traits and tags—that are common to people
who have similar origins and occupations.

Most characters have only one origin, which describes
the source of their powers.

Acharacter’s occupation tells you what they do for a living
or how they spend their days. Many super heroes who are
dedicated to their adventures full-time list their occupation
as “adventurer.”

Acharacter can also have labels unrelated to their origin
and occupation. Their rank determines how many extra
traits you can pick for them. A character gets one extra
trait per rank.

You can add as many or as few tags as you like, and they
can change throughout play.

See Chapter 6 for more details about how all this works
and what your choices are. Fill out that part of the character's
sheet, and then come back here.

POWERS

Super-powers are mostly arranged into power sets: themed
groups of related powers. Some of them are basic powers,
though, that don’t fall into a particular set. In any case, you
can choose freely among all of them, as long as your character
meets any particular power’s prerequisites.

Your character gets to pick four powers per rank. If they
focus them into a smaller number of power sets, they might
even be able to pick a few more.

If you have more power picks than you want to use, you
can use the extra picks to add to your character's ability scores.

Powers are complex enough that they have a whole
chapter dedicated to them. Go read Chapter 7 to learn all
about them, and then fill out the powers section of your
character’s sheet when youre done.

OTHER SCORES

Now that you've made most of the big decisions for your
character, it’s time to do some quick and easy math to figure
out the rest of the scores on their character sheet.

Acharacter’s Health is equal to 30 times their Resilience.

Example: Spider-Man's Resilience is 3, so his Health is (3x30=) 90.

A character's Focus is equal to 30 times their Vigilance.

Example: Spider-Man's Vigilance is 3, so his Focus is (3x30=) 90.

The base amount of damage a character does with an attack
is their rank times the result of the Marvel die on their attack
check. This is called the damage multiplier.

Melee, Accuracy, Ego and Logic can be used for attacks.
In many cases, the damage multiplier for each is the same.
However, when figuring out the damage done, you also add
the ability score used in the attack.

Some powers—like Mighty or Accuracy—can give a
character a bonus to their damage multiplier for attacks
with certain abilities. Powers and other things that grant
bonuses to damage multipliers do not stack.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4, so his standard damage
multiplier is 4. When attacking with Melee, he adds his Melee score
of 5 to that result, so his Melee damage would be (dMarvelx4)+5.

Spider-Man has the power Mighty 1, which adds +1 to his Melee
damage multiplier. This makes his Melee damage (dMarvelx5)+5.

Spider-Man successfully punches a crook with a roll of 4 6 3
on his Melee check. To figure the damage, take Spidey’s Marvel
die result (6) times his Melee damage multiplier (5)—which comes
out to 6x5= 30—plus his Melee score, for a total of 30+5= 35 points
of damage. Since the crook has only 30 Health points, that’s more
than enough to knock him out in one punch!

The character's Initiative Modifier is equal to their Vigilance.
Add this number to their initiative checks to see who goes
first in a fight.

Example: Spider-Man's Vigilance is 3, so his Initiative Modifier is +3.

His Spider-Sense power also gives him an edge on initiative
checks, so his profile shows his Initiative Modifier as +3E, which
means “+3 with an edge.”

Most characters are average size. Some powers and traits can
change that. List the character’s standard size here.

An average-sized character’s base Run Speed is 5 spaces per
round. To that, add +1 for every 5 points they have in Agility.
\ On top of that, if they have the Big trait, they add +1, and if
.} they have the Small trait, they take -1.

Example: Spider-Man's base Run Speed is 5. His Agility is 7,

<> so add another +1 for that to make it 8.
S&F His size is average, so there’s no adjustment from that.

Zmaemamaaamamaawamwaeaeaaaeawaaweeweaeawaaeweweeewee 222

The character’s base Karma is equal to their rank. They can
gain and lose Karma throughout their adventures, but it resets
to this base number every time they get a full night's sleep.

Example: Spider-Man is Rank 4, so his Karma is 4.

CHARACTER DATA

Now that you have the character’s game statistics ready, it’s
time to come up with some more details about their life. A
character's data includes things that generally don’t affect
how they work in the game but reveal personal information
about themselves and their history. These can have even
bigger impacts upon their stories than their powers.

Remember that none of these details are carved in stone.
That's why you use a pencil to write them down—or why
there’s a backspace key on your keyboard. Nothing about
your character is permanent until you play that character
in a game, and even then, things can change.

Feel free to write down your
first ideas for your character. If
you get a better idea as you
go along, you can always
rearrange the details so
they fit the rest of the
character like a glove—or
maybe a mask.

Art hw luciana Varchin
Codename

This is the name the character is known by publicly—
assuming it’s different from their real name. If it’s not, just
put their real name down here.

The codename usually says something about the
character's powers or their relation to others. Sometimes
both. For instance, characters with the name Spider-Man are
male and have spider-related powers.

However, it’s entirely up to you. Captain Marvel's name,
for example, doesn’t say anything about their powers or
gender. It’s more about who the character is to the world.

Sometimes, a character’s codename is a thinly veiled
play on their real name. Professor X, for instance, is not just
a nickname for Professor Charles Xavier. The X also refers
to the X-Gene that all mutants carry.

Real Name

This is the character's given name—or at least the one they're
known by to most people. Names can be complicated things,
often encapsulating details about the character's ancestry
and the things or people their parents valued.

If you like, you can write down alternate names here
too. These might include married names, well-used aliases
and nicknames. Anything the character might answer to.

If the character has a secret identity, they usually keep
this name private from those they encounter in their work as
a super hero. They might share it with a few trusted friends
and family, but the more people who know their secret, the
likelier it is that it won't remain a secret for long.

Sometimes, the character doesn’t even know their given
name anymore, much like how the original Wolverine didn't
for many years.

Height

Put down whatever height you'd like here. A character does
not need to tower over others to be a super hero. Just ask the
famously short Wolverine (Logan).

If you want the character to be particularly tall or short,
they might also need to have a trait or power that accounts
for their difference in size. If you're playing a young character,
they might be naturally smaller than an adult, of course.

Weight

Put down whatever weight you'd like here. Super heroes
tend to be physically fit, but their weight can vary a lot due
to powers and other traits.

In this game, a character's size is determined by their
weight. Average size ranges from 100 to 400 pounds. If the
character is smaller or bigger than that, they should have
a trait or power that accounts for the difference.

Gender

This is entirely your call, as the character prefers to define
it. Some characters with shape-shifting powers can change
genders at will. In such cases, make a note of that, but put
down here what their standard or preferred gender might be.

Eyes
Put down the color of the character's eyes here. If there's
anything unusual about them, describe that here as well.

Hair
Describe the character's hair. What color is it? Is it long or
short? Straight, kinky, spiky, curly? Are they bald?

This can, of course, change throughout the game. Storm,
for instance, is known for having worn her hair in many
different ways.

Distinguishing Features
Here’s where you write down anything out of the ordinary
about the character's physique. This includes things like
scars, tattoos and missing (or extra!) parts, or if they have
askin color outside the norm for humans, like green or blue.
Some features can be like a teaser for a story. How did
they get that scar? What does that tattoo mean to them?
Why is their skin white when most of their people are blue?
You don’t have to answer all those questions straightaway,
but you should keep them in mind as you develop the
character further.

Occupation
This is part of the character’s backstory, so put down the
occupation you chose for them here.

Origin
This is the other part of the character's backstory, the source
of their powers. List their Origin here.

Teams
Is the character a member of any team or organization? Are they
part of the Avengers? The Defenders? The Fantastic Four? The
X-Men? S.H.LE.L.D.? Maybe even an unwitting pawn of Hydra?
Note that some heroes are or have been members of many
different teams. Lots of teams change their rosters frequently.
You might want to ask your Narrator about this to see
what sorts of possibilities might be open to you. With their
permission, the character could be part of just about anything.
The character could even be part of an all-new team that you
and your fellow players concoct.

Base
This is where the character hangs up their costume at the
end of the day. In most cases, you can just list a city, but you
can be as general or particular as you like, right down toa
street address. Maybe they don't have a permanent place they
call home, in which case you can list their base as “mobile.”

Many Marvel heroes reside in New York City, but your
character can live anywhere you like—and can be from
anywhere too. Some characters have multiple bases they
can crash at on any given day. Others have homes they go
back to only infrequently, sometimes on other planets or
even in other dimensions.

This information can, of course, change throughout play.
If the character’s home is destroyed, for instance, they're
going to have to find a new one, after all.

History

This is a biography for the character, something that
summarizes the story of their lives until the game begins. The
amount of space on the sheet is enough for a good start, but if
you need more, feel free to add a blank sheet and keep going.

“an
NF

Some people like to fill in as much about their history
as possible, going generations back into their character's
ancestry. Others prefer to work with minimal details and
make it up as they go. There's no right way to handle this.
Just do what you prefer.

You can also add to this part of the character sheet as
you go, developing their history more and keeping track of
what happens during their adventures. Or you can play it
loose and trust your memory.

A good history concentrates on details that are intriguing
or could become important during play. Feel free to ignore
everything else.

If you like, you can write this part up as if it was the
recap page of your favorite comic book, the part that tells
you what's happened up to this point. Give just enough detail
about the character to catch everyone up and let them know
where they are now.

Personality

The character profiles feature this section as a means of
giving a player hints on how to play the character. Are
they gruff or kind? Do they have an interesting accent or
a particular attitude? These help players keep in tune with
established characters that other players might already have
extensive experience with.

When creating your own character, you can use this
section for notes on how you expect the character to act.
Remember that you can change things around to what you
think works best. The words written here aren't meant to
restrict but to inspire.

Creating a Character the Marvel Way
Remember, this game is not just a super-hero game. It’s a
Marvel game! That means your character should be in the
tradition of all of Marvel’s characters. It’s not their flashy
powers or their outlandish outfits that make them who they
are—it’s the person behind the mask.

Spider-Man isn’t the same character without the losses
Peter Parker experienced and the sense of responsibility they
instilled in him. Iron Man is just a manina fancy suit of power
armor without Tony Stark's ego, emotional issues and altruism.
The Thing would only be a monster without the grumpy,
determined and courageous man stuck inside his rocky skin!

Your character is not just a set of stats and a list of powers.
Take time to explore their history and personality. Think
about their daily lives, the people they hope to protect with
their powers, the causes they are willing to fight for and their
weaknesses or flaws. Give yourself and your fellow players a
reason to identify with them and care about them so you can
all cheer each other on together.

While you can have all sorts of spectacular battles in this
game, this is not a tabletop combat game. It’s a role-playing
game. Knowing the character and the role they hope to play
in the world around them is sure to make your time playing
the game even more fitting for the Marvel Multiverse.

For this example, we're going to build a brand-new character.
You can skip over this for now if you like and come back
later after you've read the rest of the book, which explains
other steps in detail.

Zmaeamamaamawaamawaawawaaaaaawawaawaawaawawaweeweeea 2 ae

Character Concept
We want to play a college student who attends Empire State
University in Manhattan. Late one night, the character is
studying at the New York Public Library’s main branch (the
Schwarzman Building) when robbers break into the place,
looking for a magic book. While hiding from the robbers,
the character discovers that ancient tome, and it magically
transforms them into Young Lion, defender of public knowledge.
We're going to leave the other details like hair color,
gender and personality blank for now. If you like, you can fill
them in later and make a version of Young Lion of your own.

Rank

First, we talk with the Narrator and the rest of the players
and decide that we're going to create a Rank 1 character
to fit well with the game and the rest of the team. We're
starting off at the lowest rank possible, but that just gives
the characters more room to grow.

We also decide that we're going to put a rank cap of 4on
the characters, as we want to have the kinds of adventures
that characters of that rank often have. That doesn’t mean we
can’t change our minds later, but that should work for now.

Ability Scores
Since Young Lion is Rank 1, they have 5 ability score points
to spread among the six abilities. At Rank 1, those abilities
are currently capped at a maximum of 4.

We put 2 points into Melee and 1 point each into Agility,
Resilience and Vigilance. That uses up all our points.

We then figure out Young Lion’s ability defenses by adding
+10 to each ability score. So far, our hero looks like this:

ABILITY SCORES
Ability Score

Ability Ability Defense

Resilience
Vigilance

Backstory

Now it’s time to pick Young Lion’s origin and occupation,
along with any extra traits. Since the book they got their
powers from is arcane in nature, we pick the Magic origin.
That gives them the tags Sorcerous and Supernatural.

For an occupation, we pick Student. That gives them
the tags Mentor and Obligation: School, and the trait
Quick Learner.

At Rank 1, Young Lion gets to choose one extra trait.
Looking over the list, we decide that Young Lion has a temper,
so we choose Berserker.

We also decide that Young Lion wants to help people
rather than harm them, so we give them the tag Heroic. Also,
they're not sure about telling people about their powers yet,
so we take the Secret Identity tag too. If that changes later,
we can switch over to a Public Identity tag then.

(2)
We also would like Young Lion to have claws. We pick the
Signature Weapon tag to cover that.

Inall, Young Lion has two traits: Berserker and Quick Learner.
They also have seven tags: Heroic, Mentor, Obligation: School,
Secret Identity, Sorcerous, Supernatural and Signature Weapon.

Powers
Finally, it’s time to pick Young Lion’s powers. As a Rank 1
character, they can have up to four powers.

We decide to start with the power set Melee Weapons,
which represents Young Lion’s razor-sharp claws. Since we
didn’t pick the Extreme Appearance tag, we decide the claws
are magical and can appear and disappear at will.

We look through the Melee Weapons powers and decide
to pick Vicious Attack and Hit & Run.

We also pick Healing Factor and Mighty 1, which are
basic powers.

Other Scores
To wrap it all up, we calculate Young Lion’s other scores.

Health: Young Lion’s Resilience is 1. We multiply that by
30 to get 30 Health.

Focus: Young Lion’s Vigilance is 1. We multiply that by
30 to get 30 Focus.

Damage Multipliers: Young Lion is Rank 1, so their base
damage multiplier is 1. Their power Mighty 1 adds 1 to their
Melee damage modifier. The others are unaffected. Their
damages are:

YouNG LIon’s DAMAGES
Ability Ability Score
(dMarvelx2)+2

(dMarvelx1)+1
(dMarvelx1)
(dMarvelx1)

Initiative Modifier: Young Lion’s Vigilance is 1, so their
Initiative Modifier is +1.

Speed: The base Run Speed is 5 spaces. Young Lion’s Agility
and size don’t affect that, so it stays at 5 spaces. Their Climb,
Jump and Swim Speeds are all half that, or 3 spaces each.

Size: Since none of Young Lion’s traits or powers affect
their size, they are average size.

Karma: Young Lion is Rank 1, so they have 1 Karma.

Character Data

We purposely left much of Young Lion's character data blank
so that you can customize the character to your own liking. If
you want to use them ina game, just fill in those last details,
and you're good to go.

If your character hasn't already hit their rank cap, they
can move up from one rank to the next during play. To do
so, the character needs to hit certain milestones established
by your Narrator in conjunction with the rest of the players
in the group. These usually involve things like completing

a large adventure or a series of smaller adventures, but the
rate at which characters can improve their rank can vary
from group to group. Some rocket straight up to their rank
caps, while others take their time.

Chapter 10 has details on how to set expectations and
measure progress for character advancement. There are no
Narrator-only secrets in that chapter, so feel free to read the
information there to learn more.

Advancements are usually handled between play
sessions, after the character has reached their current goal.
Alternatively—especially if the advancement in rank
involves the addition of powers from new power sets rather
than new powers from current ones—they can happen at
dramatic moments in the middle of a game.

Rank Bonuses
When a character rises in rank, they gain the following
improvements:

RESOURCES BY RANK
Ability
Rank Points

Damage Multiplier,

Powers Karma & Traits

INCREASES PER RANK

Ability

Rank Points
+1 +5

Damage Multiplier,
Karma & Traits

+1

Powers
+4

Be sure to recalculate the following things as well if they
are based on things that have changed:

> Ability defenses
> Health

> Focus

> Damage bonuses
> Initiative Modifier
> Speeds

Reaching the Rank Cap
While you can have incredible adventures that help your
character improve by rising in rank, remember that’s not the
main point of a super-hero game like this. Most characters
still have countless adventures ahead of them once they
reach their rank cap, and your hero should be no different.
The incentive to keep playing comes not from gaining
rank bonuses but from defeating horrible villains, saving
the world and generally helping people out. For most heroes,
that provides plenty of motivation, even over the course of
decades of adventures.

(8)

“~~
J

BACKSTORIES

A CHARACTER IS MORE THAN A SIMPLE COLLECTION OF
abilities and scores. By the time they enter a game, they
have a whole life behind them, a series of situations and
choices that form their backstory.

Acharacter’s backstory is the sum of everything they’ve
done up to that point in time. To keep things simple, we

break that down into two categories: origins and occupations.

Origins are often things that are beyond the character's
control. They were born that way or something happened to
make them that way, and the situation is often permanent. If
the character is a mutant, for instance, they are always going
to be a mutant. If the character becomes a gamma mutate after

exposure to gamma rays, there's little they can do to change that.

These origins often bring access to powers. Sometimes
that means the character can have just about any kind of
power (like if they are a mutant), and other times, the origin
determines what powers the character winds up with (like
if they are a vampire).

Occupations, on the other hand, are ways that the
character spends their time or makes a living. This can range

from being a student to a doctor to a soldier or anything else.

These occupations often bring with them a set of traits—skills

or resources particular to people who have that occupation.

Most characters have only one origin and one occupation
to start with. Some have more, especially if they’ve been
around for a while.

Both origins and occupations come with labels known
as traits and tags that help describe how they define the
character in game terms.

A trait is a label with a mechanical effect in the game. It
can affect abilities or dice rolls or something else entirely,
but it has a definitive effect.

A tag is a label that has only a narrative effect in the
game. A good example would be Secret Identity. This tag
says something important about the character, how they
act and who they trust, but it doesn’t affect the mechanics
in the game at all.

Both traits and tags are described in full later on in
this chapter.

Challenging Labels

Not all labels are entirely beneficial. In fact, some of them
can cause a character all sorts of problems. Any time that
happens, though, the Narrator should give the character a
point of Karma to make up for it.

Whether or not a label is challenging for a character
often depends on the context. A secret identity, for instance,
can help protect the character's friends and family from
being attacked by the character’s enemies. But keeping
something so important from those same people can cause
the character all sorts of headaches.

Players can purposefully put their characters in
situations in which their labels might cause them problems
as a means of gaining Karma for the characters. In fact,
Narrators should encourage this kind of behavior, as it can
make for wonderful moments of tension.

However, not every moment in a game needs to revolve
around the characters’ challenging labels. If such behavior
becomes disruptive or tedious, the Narrator can puta stop to
it—at least temporarily—by suspending the Karma reward.

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Gaining and Losing Labels

Characters can gain labels through game play. These should
arise naturally as the game's story evolves, and the Narrator
should award them to the character when it’s appropriate.

For instance, if the character pursues a new career, they
could add a new occupation—and maybe lose the old one.
If they lose their sight, they would gain the Vision Issues
tag—at least until they get their sight back.

It's also possible for a character to lose labels during the
game or to switch labels. For example, if a character with a
secret identity is unmasked before the world, they should
switch from the Secret Identity tag to the Public Identity tag.

Traits and tags can also be juggled according to the context
of the game. For instance, if a character who has the Public
Identity tag starts saving the world while wearing an entirely
different costume, they could wind up with both the Public
Identity and the Secret Identity tags.

Super-powered characters have intriguing origins that
help explain their powers, even if those characters don't
always fully understand how or why. Some characters—like
mutants—were born with their powers. Others gained them
accidentally, through some strange and often unrepeatable
scientific experiment or mishap. Still others acquired their
powers through years of hard work or diligent study. And
some don't really have powers at all but instead rely on
technological wizardry.

Several origins are listed here. Each comes with a package of
traits and tags that are defined later in this chapter. Additionally,
some come with powers, which are described in Chapter 7.

If you don't find the origin you want for your character
listed here, feel free to make up new ones on your own.
Just be sure to get your Narrator’s approval before you use
them in play.

The labels associated with some origins can change over
time and with the particular setting of a game. For instance,
at the time the X-Men were founded, being a mutant meant
being hounded for being different. In more modern tales,
mutants are still hounded, but they are also welcome to
become citizens of the mutant homeland of Krakoa, which
comes with certain privileges.

Note that the powers listed here do not come for free.
When creating a character, these powers must be picked first.

Alien

The character is not human and probably not from Earth or
at least Earth-616. The Marvel Multiverse features all sorts
of different alien races. The most common of these—Kree,
Skrulls and so on—have their own entries. If the character
doesn't fit one of those, then this origin applies.

Examples: Devil Dinosaur, Gamora, Groot, Rocket Raccoon.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (common).
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Kree
The character is a member of the Kree, a humanoid race
from the planet Hala who formed the interstellar Kree
Empire in the region of space known as the Large Magellanic
Cloud. They resemble humans but are stronger and tougher.
Many of them have blue skin, but a good number of them
have pink skin.

The air on Hala has much more nitrogen in it, and Kree
who are raised in it (or something like it) have a hard time
breathing the air on Earth.

Examples: Captain Marvel (Mar-Vell), Hulkling (half Skrull
and half Kree), Magnitron (Yon-Rogg), Ronan the Accuser.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (if blue-skinned).
Traits: Breathe Different, Enhanced Physique.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Shi‘ar

The character is a member of the Shi’ar, an avian humanoid
race from the planet Chandilar who formed the interstellar
Shi’ar Empire in the Shi’ar Galaxy. They resemble humans
but are much stronger and have feathers instead of hair
on their heads.

Examples: Adam-X, Deathbird, Majestrix Lilandra Neramani.
Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance.

Traits: Enhanced Physique.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Alien: Skrull
The character is amember of the Skrull, a reptilian humanoid
race of shape-shifters who formed the interstellar Skrull
Empire. In their natural form, they have green skin, red or
green eyes, pointed ears and furrowed chins. They sprang
from the planet Skrullos in the Andromeda Galaxy.
The original Skrulls could not shape-shift, but the
Celestials experimented on them to form Eternal Skrulls
and Deviant Skrulls, much like they did with humans on
Earth. The Deviant Skrulls became the dominant form of
the species, driving the originals to extinction.

Examples: Hulkling (half Skrull and half Kree), Lyja,
Super-Skrull (KI1'rt).

Tags: Alien Heritage, Extreme Appearance (in their
natural form).

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Powers: Disguise, Extended Reach, Flexible Bones, Shape-
shift, Slip Free.

Atlantean
The character is amember Homo mermanus, a variant race of
humanity. Atlanteans breathe water through gills on both
sides of their neck, and they cannot breathe air for longer
than ten minutes.

If they live in the Atlantic Ocean, they likely have blue
skin and hail from Atlantis. If they come from the Pacific
Ocean, they likely have green skin and live in Lemuria.

Examples: Attuma, Sub-Mariner (Namor), Namora,
Warlord Krang.

Tags: Amphibious, Extreme Appearance.

Traits: Breathe Different, Enhanced Physique.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Powers: Heightened Senses, Speed Swim.

Deviant

The character is a member of Homo descendus, a variant race
of humanity created by the Celestials. They are scattered
across Earth, but they mainly live in underground cities
beneath the Pacific Ocean, close to Lemuria.

Only one hundred Deviants were originally created, but
many more have been born over the millennia since then.
They vary a great deal physically, coming in all sizes, shapes,
colors and textures. Each is born with a unique physical
mutation, and they have the latent genetic ability to develop
powers, much like mutants.

Eternals are compelled to kill Deviant mutates as part
of their principle “Correct excess deviation.”

Examples: Brother Tode, Karkas, Kro.
Tags: Extreme Appearance, Hunted.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Eternal

The character is a member of Homo immortalis, a variant race

of humanity created by the Celestials. They are scattered

across Earth, but their headquarters lies in the city of Olympia,

high in the mountains in Greece and folded into an echo

dimension. Some live on Titan (a moon of Saturn) instead.
The Eternals live by three principles:

> Protect Celestials.

P Protect the Machine (a sentient A.I. deeply
connected with the Earth).

P Correct excess deviation.

Only one hundred Eternals were originally created,
and only two have been born since: Thanos and Eros. The

aN

character is either one of the lesser-known one hundred or
anew Eternal brought to life through extraordinary means.

Through a ritual usually initiated by the Prime Eternal
(their official leader), Eternals can be called to be part of a
collective being known as the Uni-Mind.

Examples: Ikaris, Sersi, Sprite, Thanos, Thena.
Tags: Eternally Immortal, Mahd Wy’ry.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

High Tech

The character's powers arise from high-tech devices that are
well beyond the limits of modern-day engineering. This can
come in many forms.

Examples: Doctor Octopus (Otto Octavius), Gauntlet
(Joseph Green), Mysterio (Quentin Beck), the Trapster.
Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Android

The character is an artificial person. Their body (when they
have one) is made of plastic, metal and circuitry rather
than flesh and blood. Their powers come from technology
embedded in their artificial body.

Examples: Human Torch (Jim Hammond), Jocasta,
Machine Man, Vision.

Tags: A.I., Extreme Appearance (common).
Traits: Tech Reliance.

Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

High Tech: Battle Suit
The character wears a high-tech suit that grants them powers.
When the battle suit is removed, the character no longer has
access to the powers it grants. They are entirely—or at least
mostly—normal underneath.

Most characters with this origin have the Extreme
Appearance tag when wearing their battle suit.

Examples: Iron Man (Tony Stark), Ironheart, War Machine
Tags: Extreme Appearance (common when in Battle Suit).
Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Cybernetics

The character has high-tech, surgically embedded implants
that grant them powers. These cannot be removed without
great care or pain.

Ifthe implants are obvious, the character gets the Extreme
Appearance tag. Otherwise, the implants have been hidden
inside their body (as with the lacing of Wolverine’s skeleton
with adamantium) and might be visible only when in use
(like when Wolverine uses his claws), if then.

Examples: Deathlok (all of them), Sabretooth, Winter
Soldier, Wolverine (Logan).

Tags: Extreme Appearance (common).

Traits: Tech Reliance.

High Tech: Pym Particles
The character uses Pym Particles (named after their inventor,
Henry Pym) to dramatically grow or shrink in size.

After long-enough exposure to Pym Particles, many
people are able to generate such particles on their own

53
Vw

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

without the need of external aid. They may still need to use
extra Pym Particles to reach extremely large or small sizes.

Examples: Ant-Man (Scott Lang), Giant-Man (Rax Malhotra),
Wasp (Janet Van Dyne).

Traits: Tech Reliance (at first).

Powers: Grow 1 and/or Shrink 1 (at least).

Inhuman

The character is a member of Homo sapiens inhumanus, a
variant race of humanity genetically engineered by the
Kree. For millennia, they lived isolated from the world, but
they emerged in recent years, led by Black Bolt.

All Inhumans carry a latent gene that can be activated
by the Terrigen Mist. The explosion of a Terrigen Bomb
spread the mist across the entire planet, revealing that many
humans (including Kamala Khan) had Inhuman genetics.
Black Bolt was later forced to destroy the Inhumans, leaving
few outside of the royal family alive.

The character is one of those rare Inhumans who survived.

Examples: Black Bolt, Crystal, Karnak, Lockjaw, Medusa,
Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan).
Tags: Inhuman Genes.

Magic

The character's powers arise from supernatural means. There
are many different traditions within magic, each with their
own teachings.

Examples: Clea, Doctor Voodoo (Jericho Drumm), Enchantress.
Tags: Supernatural.

Magic: Chaos Magic
The character is able to use chaos magic, which allows them to
bend reality to their will. It stems from the ancient god Chthon.

Examples: Morgan Le Fay, Scarlet Witch, Wiccan.
Tags: Chaotic, Supernatural.

Magic: Demonic

The character taps into (or is cursed by) the powers of Hell.
They may be a native of one of the Nine Circles of Hell, or
their powers might simply come from a Hellish source.

Examples: Belasco, Blackheart, Daimon Hellstrom,
Dormammu.
Tags: Cursed, Supernatural.

Magic: Sorcery
The character’s powers arise from the study and
practice of sorcery.

Examples: Agatha Harkness, Ancient One (Yao), Doctor
Strange, Magik, Wong.
Tags: Sorcerous, Supernatural.

Monstrous

The character is some kind of monster. They may have a
human form—or may have once been human—but they get
their powers from their unnatural monstrousness.

Examples: Cullen Bloodstone, Living Mummy, Man-Thing.
Traits: Monster.

Monstrous: Vampire

The character was once alive but was embraced by a vampire
and has risen from death as a vampire too. They can transmit
this magical disease to victims of their choosing.

When a character becomes a vampire, they go up one
rank and gain the listed tags, traits and powers. They do
not gain any additional powers or traits from this bump in
rank, but they do gain 5 ability points and add +1 to their
damage multiplier. If they have the Heroic tag, they also
add 1 to their Karma.

Examples: Baron Blood, Dracula, Blade (half vampire).
Tags: Alternate Forms: Bat/Mist/Wolf, Deceased,
Imageless.

Traits: Anathema: Garlic/Holy Symbols (including Holy
Water)/Sunshine, Bloodthirsty, Monster, Weaknesses:
Silver/Wood.

Powers: Animal Communication: Bats/Rodents, Command,
Healing Factor, Leech Life, Mighty 1, Sturdy 2, Telepathic Link.
Limitation: Unless the character has another origin, they
cannot choose other powers.

Monstrous: Werewolf

The character is afflicted with lycanthropy, a magical disease
that causes them to take on the shape of a werewolf during the
three nights of the full moon. They can transmit this magical
disease to victims of their choosing who survive their attacks.

When a character becomes a werewolf, they gain the
Lunar Transformation and Alternate Form tags. When the
character takes on their werewolf form, they go up one rank
and gain the rest of the listed tags, traits and powers. They
do not gain any additional powers or traits from this bump
in rank, but they do gain 5 ability points and add +1 to their
damage multiplier. If they have the Heroic tag, they also add
1to their Karma. When they return to human form, they lose
the benefits of their werewolf form.

The character can switch forms voluntarily at any point—
except during the three nights that the moon is at its fullest.
On those nights, while the moon is above the horizon, the
character must transform into a werewolf and is ruled by
their animal nature. They cannot help but hunt and attack
any people or creatures they come across, no matter if they
are friend or foe.

Examples: Werewolf by Night (Jack Russell), Werewolf by
Night (Jake Gomez).

Tags: Alternate Form: Werewolf/Wolf, Extreme
Appearance (in werewolf form), Lunar Transformation.
Traits: Berserker, Monster, Weakness: Silver.

Powers: Evasion, Healing Factor, Heightened Senses,
Mighty 1, Sturdy 2.

Limitation: Unless the character has another origin, they
cannot choose other powers.

Mutant

The character's powers spring from them being a member
of the subspecies Homo superior. They have a latent X-Gene
that grants them powers, often triggered at adolescence.

Examples: Cyclops, Jean Grey, Storm, Wolverine (Logan),
Wolverine (Laura Kinney).
Tags: Hounded, Krakoan, X-Gene.

<
Vv
Art by Takashi Okazaki & Edgar Delgado

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Mythic
The character is a creature or person of myth and legend.
While they may appear human, they are something else.

Examples: Angela (Aldrif Odinsdottir), Fairies, Malekith.
Tags: Supernatural.
Suggested Occupation: Outsider.

Mythic: Asgardian

The character is a member of the Asgardian people,

resembling the Norse gods. They call Asgard their home.
The character can be one of the many gods who have

been named throughout history, or they can be one of the

lesser-known gods of Asgard. They should choose something

that they are the god of.

Examples: Hela, Heimdall, Loki, Sif, Thor (Odinson).
Tags: Supernatural, Worshipped.
Traits: God Heritage, Enhanced Physique.

Mythic: Olympian

The character is a member of the Olympian people,
resembling the gods of Ancient Greece and Rome. They call
Olympus their home.

The character can be one of the many gods who have been
named throughout history, or they can be one of the lesser-
known gods of Olympus. They should choose something that
they are the god of.

Examples: Ares, Athena, Hercules, Zeus.
Tags: Supernatural, Worshipped.
Traits: God Heritage, Enhanced Physique.

Special Training

The character's powers come from long hours of practice.
Their intense focus grants them abilities that would
astonish most people.

Examples: Hawkeye (Clint Barton), Hawkeye (Kate
Bishop), Nick Fury Jr., Shang-Chi.

Traits: Determination.

Limitation: Unless the character has another origin,
they cannot choose powers that grant them superhuman
abilities. Allowed power sets include Martial Arts, Melee
Weapons, Ranged Weapons, Shield Bearer and Tactics.
They can also choose basic powers a regular human could
reasonably have. See the Basic powers list on page 80.

Spirit of Vengeance
The character has been possessed by a Spirit of Vengeance.
Their purpose is to find sinners and impose penance.
When a character becomes possessed by a Spirit of
Vengeance, they gain the Alternate Form tag, which they
can use voluntarily at any point. When the character takes
on their Ghost Rider form, they gain access to the listed tags,
traits and powers. When they return to human form, they
lose the benefits of their Ghost Rider form.

Examples: Ghost Rider (Johnny Blaze), Ghost Rider
(Danny Ketch), Ghost Rider (Robbie Reyes).

Tags: Alternate Form: Ghost Rider, Cursed, Supernatural.
Powers: Elemental Protection 2, Environmental
Protection, Healing Factor, Hellfire Chains, Mighty 2,

Penance Stare, Possess Vehicle, and Sense Sins. They
should select most of the rest of their powers from the
Magic: Demonic and Elemental Control: Hellfire sets.
Limitation: The character should be at least Rank 4.
Unless the character has another origin, they cannot
choose other powers.

Symbiote

The character has bonded with one of the Klyntar, a race of
alien symbiotes created by the alien god Knull. Most of these
creatures on Earth display spiderlike powers.

When a character bonds with a symbiote, they go up
one rank and gain the listed tags, traits and powers. Any
remaining powers they select are often from the Spider-
Powers set but do not have to be. Many symbiotes have the
Disguise power.

If the symbiote is Venom or one of its progeny, Spider-Man
(Peter Parker) cannot gain any benefits from his Spider-Sense
power against the bonded character.

Examples: Carnage, Venom (Eddie Brock), Shriek.
Traits: Anathema: Extreme Heat/Extreme Sonics.
Powers: Environmental Protection, Mighty 1.

Unknown

The character has developed powers but is not entirely sure
how. It could be that the player or the Narrator knows, but
the character does not, or maybe nobody else does either.
Astonishing things happen all the time in the Marvel
Multiverse, and there’s no way to classify them all.

The source of these powers may be explained in time. It
could turn out that the character actually has a standard
type of origin, or it could be that they have an origin that’s
utterly unique.

Examples: Squirrel Girl, Taskmaster.
Tags: Mysterious.

Weird Science

The character's powers arose from a scientific experiment or
accident that’s hard—if not impossible—to reproduce. Often,
they had the latent genetic potential to develop powers and
were somehow exposed to the right triggers—which would
have likely killed most other people.

These kinds of characters are sometimes called mutates.
The difference between a mutate and a mutant is that a
mutant’s powers come to them naturally, but a mutate’s
powers require a triggering incident that might never
happen. In this sense, Inhumans are all mutates who share
a gene with a known trigger: the Terrigen Mist.

Examples: Captain America (Steve Rogers), Daredevil
(Matt Murdock), Invisible Woman, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage,
Spider-Man (Miles Morales), Spider-Man (Peter Parker).
Traits: Weird.

Weird Science: Gamma Mutate

The character has a genetic mutation that gave them
powers once they were exposed to enough gamma radiation,
transforming them physically. This often gives them
a monstrous appearance and changes their coloration
drastically, usually to green, although some become red or

(8)
even blue. They can often transform back into their original
form as well.

Examples: Doc Samson, Harpy (Betty Banner), Hulk
(Bruce Banner), Red Hulk (Thaddeus “Thunderbolt” Ross).
Tags: Extreme Appearance (common in gamma mutate form),
Green Door, Immunity: Gamma Radiation, Radioactive.
Traits: Weird.

While super heroes spend a great deal of their time trying
to help others and to make the world a better place, many of
them have other responsibilities, including having to work
for a living. These things that they do are called occupations.
As part of a character's occupation, they tend to pick up
skills, contacts and other resources that can come in handy
in the course of the game. These are listed as a package of
traits and tags that the character gains for free.
Each character starts with a single occupation. They can
pick up others throughout play, at the Narrator’s discretion,
and they can lose occupations too.
An occupation is generally something the character is
involved in now or in their recent past. For instance, if the
character is young, they probably go to school and should
pick the student occupation. Older characters probably
also went to school in their younger years, but they often
move on to another occupation. They should ignore the
student occupation and pick one that better fits their
current occupation.
Numerous occupations are described in this section,
but such a list cannot be exhaustive. If you have an
idea for a new occupation or would like to tailor one
of the current ones to better fit your character, go
right ahead. Just be sure to discuss it with your
Narrator too.

Adventurer
The character focuses on having adventures. Perhaps they're
independently wealthy and don’t need another occupation,
or maybe they hire out their services.

Examples: Iron Fist (Danny Rand), Luke Cage, Hawkeye
(Kate Bishop).

Tags: Black Market Access.

Traits: Fearless, Connections: Super Heroes or Villains.

Assassin
The character is a hired killer. They might tell themselves
that this is for the greater good. They might be picky about
who they take on as clients or targets, but the core of their
occupation is ending lives.

Examples: Arcade, Bullseye, Elektra, the Punisher.
Tags: Streetwise, Villainous (common).
Traits: Connections: Criminal, Signature Attack.

Criminal
The character did something that put them on the wrong
side of the law. They might have spent time in jail for their
crimes, or they might have gotten away with them scot-free.
The fact that they break the law doesn’t necessarily make

them a bad person, but law enforcers usually don’t care
about such distinctions.

If they are currently wanted by the law for their crimes,
they should also take the Hunted tag. If they have served
time, they should take the Convict tag too.

Examples: Ant-Man (Scott Lang), Black Cat, Gambit.
Tags: Black Market Access, Streetwise.
Traits: Connections: Criminal.

Educator

The character educates others. They might be a grade-
school teacher, a college professor or some other kind of
instructor. They do their best to bring the knowledge they
have to other people.

Examples: Agatha Harkness, Blue Marvel, Professor X.
Traits: Connections: Community, Font of Information, Presence.

e A er , 44 =
} = > SS
) i \| Ay
| So EAS) Ls
io \ vee lo
p 3) | 4 S
=| fi = SS
s) =
>
s\\
a:
oe
Engineer

The character designs and builds things to solve problems.
They sometimes invent brand-new things, but mostly they
take scientific research and apply it to real-world problems.

Examples: Ghost Rider (Robbie Reyes), Iron Man (Tony Stark),
Whiplash.

Tags: Lab Access.

Traits: Gearhead, Inventor.

Entertainer

The character entertains others fora living. They couldbea
singer, a dancer, an actor, a musician, a writer, a filmmaker, a
speaker or something similar. They aren't shy—at least when
on the job—and they work hard to both gain an audience
and keep them engaged.

Examples: Dazzler, Echo, Mysterio, Wonder Man.
Traits: Famous, Presence, Public Speaking.

Health Care Worker

The character is a doctor, nurse, therapist or other person
dedicated to helping heal others. They likely have access to
an office where they practice their craft.

Examples: Doc Samson, Doctor Strange, the Night Nurse
(Linda Carter), Thor (Jane Foster).
Traits: Clinician, First Aid.

Investigator

The character is trained to solve mysteries. This can be as
a private detective or as part of an official law enforcement
organization, ranging from the New York Police Department
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, S.H.I.E.L.D. or even
the Nova Corps.

Examples: Jessica Jones, Misty Knight.
Traits: Connections: Police, Interrogation, Investigation.

Zamaeamamaaaaawaawaaaaaawaawaawaeawaawaawawewawewewewwwas

Journalist

The character works as a reporter or editor for a news
organization. This can range anywhere from the Daily Bugle
to TNM (Threats and Menaces). It can also include any sort of
reporting, whether TV, radio, newspaper or online.

Examples: Silk, Spider-Man (Peter Parker), Venom (Eddie Brock).
Traits: Audience, Connections: Sources, Pundit.

Law Enforcer

The character works as a law enforcement officer. They could
be anything from a town cop to an agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. They
have a great deal of authority inside their jurisdiction and
often command respect outside of it as well.

Examples: Nick Fury Jr., Human Torch (Jim Hammond),
Maria Hill, Photon (Monica Rambeau).

Tags: Authority, Backup.

Traits: Interrogation, Investigation.

Lawyer

The character has a law degree and knows how to use it.
They might work for a gigantic and powerful law firm, or
they might have set up their own practice.

Examples: Daredevil (Matt Murdock), Foggy Nelson, She-Hulk.
Traits: Dealmaker, Legal Eagle, Public Speaking.

Leader

The character is the leader of a city, region, state or nation.
This includes things like being the elected mayor of New
York City or the hereditary king of a country.

Examples: Black Bolt, Black Panther (T’Challa), Doctor
Doom, Sub-Mariner (Namor), Thor (Odinson).

Tags: Authority, Powerful.

Traits: Presence.

Se
Vv
Military
The character serves (or at least once served) in a military
organization and relies on that training. They can sometimes
call on their fellow soldiers for help. They may have worked
for a nation or possibly as part of a mercenary outfit.

If they are on active duty, their time is often not their
own, and they should take the tag Obligation: Duty.

Examples: Captain America (Steve Rogers), Captain
Marvel (Carol Danvers), War Machine, Wolverine (Logan).
Traits: Battle Ready, Connections: Military, Situational
Awareness.

Outsider

The character comes from another planet, dimension or time
and is not familiar with how things work on this Earth. They
may have had another occupation back where they came
from, but it’s not generally applicable here.

Examples: Groot, Rocket Raccoon, Thor (Odinson).
Traits: Connections: Outsiders, Fresh Eyes, Stranger.

Scientist

The character solves problems by means of scientific research.
They are often among the smartest people in the world, and
other heroes turn to them for their expertise.

Examples: Doctor Octopus (Otto Octavius), Hulk (Bruce Banner),
Mister Fantastic, Moon Girl.

Tags: Lab Access.

Traits: Inventor, Scientific Expertise.

Spy

The character is an expert in espionage. They served as a
spy fora nation or corporation and know how to find things
out about people and organizations.

Examples: Black Widow (Natasha Romanoff), Peggy Carter,
Winter Soldier.

Tags: Black Market Access.

Traits: Connections: Espionage, Leverage.

Student

The character attends school or college on a full-time basis.

What they study or focus on is up to them and their school.
Most people start out with this occupation, but once they

graduate, they move on to something new. If that happens

with your character, you can then select a new occupation

to replace this one.

Examples: Moon Girl, Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan), Spider-
Man (Miles Morales).

Tags: Mentor, Obligation: School.

Traits: Quick Learner.

Tycoon

The character is wildly wealthy and well-known. They want
for nothing, and they make a splash wherever they go. They
get invited to the best parties and let into all the VIP sections.

Examples: Iron Man (Tony Stark), Iron Monger (Obadiah
Stane), Mandarin, Sunspot, Wasp (Janet Van Dyne).
Tags: Rich.

