TAGS

A tag is a label that describes an aspect of the character but
primarily has a narrative effect rather than a mechanical
one. These define facts about the character: who they are,
where they come from, how they behave and so on. Many
tags are available to anyone, while others are restricted to
characters of certain origins.

Most characters gain tags as part of their origin and
occupation, but these can change throughout play. When
you're creating a character, it’s up to you how many tags
you want your character to have. Just keep in mind that the
tags you pick should fit well with your character concept.

There’s no limit to the number of tags a character can
have. Some characters are more complex than others and can
wind up with many tags. Others are more straightforward
and have only a few tags.

Dozens of tags—including all of those that arise from
origins and occupations—are described below. As with traits,
many descriptions are kept purposefully vague so the player
can fill in the details and make the character feel unique.

The character possesses an artificial intelligence in a
computerized mind. Their digital nature means that copies
or backups can be made of their mind and can even be
transferred into other compatible forms.

The character—or at least one of their ancestors—is not
from Earth. Pick an alien race that they belong to. If they
were not raised on Earth, they should consider taking the
Outsider occupation.

The character can change from their regular human
form into another form and back. When in either form,
the character can only access powers assigned to that
form. In most cases, this means that the character can
use powers only when in their alternate form. This tag
applies to characters that switch from one humanoid form to
another, like Colossus, Emma Frost and many of the Hulks.
It also applies to characters that have inhuman forms, like
werewolves and vampires.

The character can breathe just fine underwater and can see
and hear well in it too.

The character has trouble hearing that can range from partial
to full deafness.

The character has a legal authority of some kind. They might
be a commissioned officer, privateer, bounty hunter, doctor,
firearms dealer, lawyer, pharmacist, police officer, private
investigator, mayor, governor and so on. This tag can be
selected multiple times if appropriate.

The character is part of an organization—like a police force—
that they can call for immediate backup at any time.

The character knows how and where they can buy and sell
hard-to-find and potentially illegal things.

The character has been affected by the chaos lord Chthon.

Zamamamaaeaaazwaaaawaawaeawaawaeaweaeaaweawawaaweawaeawawawawewaweweweaeewwas

Convict
The character has been convicted of a crime, which is reflected
on their record.

Cursed
Willingly or not, the character is affiliated with Hell. This
can open them up to all sorts of nefarious plots and plans.

Deceased

The character is technically dead—although presumably
still able to interact with the rest of the world in some way.
They might be a vampire, a ghost, a zombie or even a brain
floating in a jar.

Dependents

The character has young children, elderly relatives or
others who rely on them. They can’t just abandon these
people and must check on them and help care for them on
a regular basis.

Enemy

There’s someone out there who has sworn to defeat the
character. The enemy is of at least the same rank as the
character and is obsessed with bringing them down. This
tag can be taken multiple times, but it should be reserved
for truly obsessed foes.

Eternally Immortal

The character does not age and could theoretically live
forever. If the character is killed, they can be brought back
to life in the Activation Chamber found in the Exclusion,
an Eternal base located beneath the South Pole. To make
this happen, the Activation Chamber sacrifices the life of a
random human anywhere on Earth.

Restriction: For Eternals only.

Extreme Appearance

The character looks very different than the average person
(wherever they happen to be) and cannot easily hide their
identity. When this tag appears in origins in this chapter, it
may give other useful information, like whether an extreme
appearance is common.

Green Door

After being killed, the character can come back to
life by passing through the Green Door, a portal that
connects a part of the afterlife to Earth. This makes them
effectively immortal.

Restriction: For gamma mutates only.

Headquarters

The character has a base, cave or lair they can use to recover
from wounds, repair or store equipment, work on inventions
and so on. The location can be public or secret, and it can be
as humble as a toolshed or as elaborate as an underground
complex or a Manhattan skyscraper.

Heroic
The character acts heroically. They help people in need, and they
do their best not to kill—even with people who might deserve it.

Restriction: The character cannot also be Villainous.

Hounded

The character is a member of a group of people who are
persecuted for simply being themselves.

Hunted
The character is hunted by the law for crimes they have
supposedly (or actually) committed. If captured by the police,
they may be arrested, tried for their crimes and potentially
sent to jail.

Imageless
The character casts no reflection, and their image cannot be
captured by cameras.

Immunity
The character is immune to the usual effects of something.
This can be selected multiple times.

Inhuman Genes
The character has latent Inhuman genes that cause them to
develop super-powers when exposed to the Terrigen Mist.

Restriction: For Inhumans only.

Krakoan
As a mutant, the character is automatically a citizen of the
island-nation of Krakoa and can travel to and from there
freely. Also, if they are killed and the Five—a group of
powerful mutants—are able to work together, the character
can be resurrected into an identical new body with most of
their memories intact.

If killed in Otherworld, the character can still be
resurrected, but they will be changed in unpredictable ways.
Just how this might affect the character is up to the Narrator.

Restriction: For mutants only.
Lab Access

The character either owns or has access to a laboratory filled
with the technical equipment, supplies and tools they need

i'@ wpe <
ft hy Hiumbharta Ramae & Fdoar Noloada | 4
for their work. This can be anything from a well-stocked
high-school classroom to a forensics lab to an industrial site.

Linguist

The character is fluent in a language other than their native
tongue. This tag can be selected multiple times, once for
each language.

Lunar Transformation

On the three nights that the moon is at its fullest and while
the moon is above the horizon, the character must transform
into a werewolf and is ruled by their animal nature. They
cannot help but hunt and attack any people or creatures they
come across, no matter if they are friend or foe.

Restriction: For werewolves only.

Mahd Wy’ry

The character lives for so long that their accumulated
memories have the potential to drive them insane. The only
cure for this condition is to die and then be reborn witha
restoration of their mind from a clean backup. This happens
rarely, but the disease can progress quickly once it starts.

Restriction: For Eternals only.

Mentor

The character knows an older person they can ask for advice,
even when it comes to having super-powers. This tag can be
selected multiple times.

Mute
The character cannot speak. Unless otherwise specified, they
can use other means to communicate.

Mysterious

The character does not entirely understand how or why they
have powers. This can prove unsettling and perhaps even
dangerous, or they can just take it in stride.

Obligation

The character is responsible to certain people, places or
organizations who rely on them. This tag can be selected
multiple times, using many different categories. These
include family, school, society, sports, work and so on.

Poor
The character has little access to money and struggles to
make ends meet. This can cause them all sorts of problems.

Powerful

The character has access to the resources of their entire
community. In most cases, they must be careful about how
they use such resources so that they don't lose that access.

Public Identity

The character's real identity is known to the public. This can
make it easier for them to ask their friends and family—and
even strangers—for help. Unfortunately, it also makes it
easier for their enemies to find them and even to threaten
those same friends and family.

Radioactive
The character constantly emits low levels of some sort of
radiation. This can be picked up by a Geiger counter.

Rich

The character has access to plenty of money. If they want
something normally and legally available to people, they
can simply buy it.

Secret Identity

The character's real identity is a secret to the public, and they
must take precautions to maintain this status. This might
help keep the people they care about safe from their enemies,
but it can also cause strain in those same relationships.

Signature Weapon
The character is known for owning and using a specific type
of weapon, like Hawkeye’s bow or Elektra’s sai.

This tag can be taken more than once, but each time must
be with a different weapon.

Sorcerous
The character has dedicated themself to the study of
traditional magic, also known as sorcery.

Streetwise

The character knows how things are handled on the street,
who's in charge of various criminal enterprises and how to
avoid issues with them.

Supernatural
The character has powers that are magical or based on
something magical.

Villainous
The character is a villain, someone who cares little for the
rights of others, up to and including their right to live.

Restriction: The character cannot also be Heroic.

Vision Issues

The character has trouble seeing that can range from partial
to full blindness. This can also include color blindness,
astigmatisms and being nearsighted or farsighted.

Worshipped

The character is worshipped by others as a god.

X-Gene
The character has mutant genes that cause them to develop
super-powers.

Restriction: For mutants only.
Young

The character is a minor, under 18 years old. If possible, they
must report in to their parents or guardians on a regular basis.

